---
title: MMC 2.0 Notification Messages
description: Generates notification messages when events are caused by user input.
audience: developer
author: REDMOND\\markl
manager: REDMOND\\markl
ms.assetid: 01baecfc-acc6-4fe4-9940-7f3a2cc4b183
ms.prod: windows-server-dev
ms.technology: microsoft-management-console
ms.tgt_platform: multiple
keywords:
- MMC 2.0 notification messages
ms.date: 05/31/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.author: windowssdkdev
---

# MMC 2.0 Notification Messages

MMC notifications are generated by events caused by user input. MMC can send notification messages to the snap-in's [**IComponentData::Notify**](/windows/win32/Mmc/nf-mmc-icomponentdata-notify?branch=master), [**IComponent::Notify**](/windows/win32/Mmc/nf-mmc-icomponent-notify?branch=master), or [**IExtendControlbar::ControlbarNotify**](/windows/win32/Mmc/nf-mmc-iextendcontrolbar-controlbarnotify?branch=master) methods, depending on the notification.

Generally, notification messages generated because of user input in the scope pane are sent to the snap-in's [**IComponentData**](/windows/win32/Mmc/nn-mmc-icomponentdata?branch=master) implementation. Notification messages generated from user actions in the result pane are sent to the [**IComponent**](/windows/win32/Mmc/ns-wmidata-_msmcaevent_pcicomponenterror?branch=master) instance that corresponds to the current view (MDI child window).

MMC calls the snap-in's [**IExtendControlbar::ControlbarNotify**](/windows/win32/Mmc/nf-mmc-iextendcontrolbar-controlbarnotify?branch=master) method when users initiate actions related to the toolbar.

For a list of all MMC notifications, see [MMC Notifications](mmc-notifications.md) in the MMC Reference .

Depending on the notification type, MMC might include a pointer to a data object from the snap-in for the currently selected item in the scope or result pane. MMC requests the data object from the snap-in when the user selects the item and then returns the data object to the snap-in to provide the context information the snap-in must handle the notification message generated by a user action. This context information includes the cookie value of the affected item, whether the item is a scope or result item, and whether the item is selected or deselected.

Be aware that snap-ins are encouraged to implement default notification handlers for all MMC notifications and to return a value of S\_FALSE for any notifications that they do not explicitly handle. This instructs MMC to perform a default operation for the particular notification.

Furthermore, when using a snap-in code base built for one version of MMC in a newer version of MMC, snap-in developers should ensure that their snap-ins implement default notification handlers for any new notifications available in the newer version. Otherwise, snap-ins may behave unexpectedly in the newer version. An example of this is the behavior of the **Modify Columns** dialog box, which allows users to customize list view columns. If user customizations are made, MMC sends the snap-in the [**MMCN\_COLUMNS\_CHANGED**](mmcn-columns-changed.md) notification, which is introduced in MMC 1.2. For the customizations to take effect, the snap-in *must* return S\_FALSE (or S\_OK) in its **MMCN\_COLUMNS\_CHANGED** notification handler. If the notification is not handled, MMC will discard the user customizations.

 

 




