---
title: /oldnames switch
description: The /oldnames switch directs the MIDL compiler to generate interface names that do not include the version number.
ms.assetid: 3a79c399-e115-46fd-9559-681b85cd872d
keywords:
- /oldnames switch MIDL
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- /oldnames
api_type:
- NA
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# /oldnames switch

The **/oldnames** switch directs the MIDL compiler to generate interface names that do not include the version number.

``` syntax
midl /oldnames
```

## Switch Options

This switch has no parameters.

## Remarks

The MIDL compiler incorporates the version number of the interface into the interface name that is generated in the stub (for example, iface\_v1\_0\_ServerIfHandle). This naming format is consistent with the format used by the OSF DCE IDL compiler. However, it differs from the naming format used by the MIDL 1.0 compiler. The MIDL 1.0 compiler did not include version numbers in interface names (for example, iface\_ServerIfHandle). The **/oldnames** switch allows you to instruct the MIDL compiler to generate interface names which do not include the version number. In this way, the format is consistent with names generated by the MIDL 1.0 compiler.

If you have server application code that was written for use with a stub generated by the MIDL 1.0 compiler and it refers to the MIDL-generated interface name (for example, in a call to [**RpcServerRegisterIf**](/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserverregisterif)), you should change it to reference the style of interface name supported by version 2.0 or later of the MIDL compiler. Alternately, you can use the **/oldnames** switch when invoking the MIDL compiler.

## Examples

**midl /oldnames filename.idl**

## See also

<dl> <dt>

[General MIDL Command-line Syntax](general-midl-command-line-syntax.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Interface Definition (IDL) File](interface-definition-idl-file.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 