---
title: Windows Server Manager WMI provider
description: The Windows Server Manager WMI provider manages the data exposed by the Server Manager.
audience: developer
author: REDMOND\\markl
manager: REDMOND\\markl
ms.assetid: 654bf6d2-3083-4def-bada-fc77a2f4a519
ms.prod: windows-server-dev
ms.technology: windows-management-instrumentation
ms.tgt_platform: multiple
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Windows Server Manager WMI provider

## Purpose

The Windows Server Manager WMI provider manages the data exposed by the Server Manager. The classes are defined in MgmtProvider.mof and implemented in MgmtProvider.dll

## In this section

<dl> <dt>

[**CIM\_Error**](cim-error.md)
</dt> <dd>

[**CIM\_Error**](cim-error.md) is a specialized class that contains information about the severity, cause, recommended actions and other data related to the failure of a CIM Operation. Instances of this type MAY be included as part of the response to a CIM Operation.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerBpaResult**](msft-serverbparesult.md)
</dt> <dd>

Class that represents the results selected by a BPA path.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerClusterInformation**](msft-serverclusterinformation.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents the cluster attribute of the managed node.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerError**](msft-servererror.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents an extended error information regarding the a failure in Server Manager's Provider.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerEventDetail**](msft-servereventdetail.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents the detailed information of an event in a particular log generated by a specific source.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerEventLog**](msft-servereventlog.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents an event log.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerFeature**](msft-serverfeature.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents a server feature on the managed node.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerInventory**](msft-serverinventory.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents the inventory information of the server.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerManagerTasks**](msft-servermanagertasks.md)
</dt> <dd>

Class that exposes Multi Machine Server Manager tasks.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerNetworkAdapter**](msft-servernetworkadapter.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represent an installed network adapter on the server.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerOperatingSystem**](msft-serveroperatingsystem.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents the operating system of the server.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerPerformanceCounterSamples**](msft-serverperformancecountersamples.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents the list of performance counter samples collected from the managed node.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_ServerServiceDetail**](msft-serverservicedetail.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents the details about an installed system service on the server.

</dd> </dl>

 

 




