---
title: ID Attribute (VML)
description: ID Attribute (VML)
ms.assetid: 39575a1c-f8ea-43e0-9ad5-540e9d803748
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# ID Attribute (VML)

This topic describes VML, a feature that is deprecated as of Windows Internet Explorer 9. Webpages and applications that rely on VML should be migrated to SVG or other widely supported standards.

> [!Note]  
> As of December 2011, this topic has been archived. As a result, it is no longer actively maintained. For more information, see [Archived Content](/previous-versions/windows/internet-explorer/ie-developer/). For information, recommendations, and guidance regarding the current version of Windows Internet Explorer, see [Internet Explorer Developer Center](https://msdn.microsoft.com/ie/).

 

Provides a unique identifier for an element. Read/write. **String**.

**Applies To**

All VML elements.

**Tag Syntax**

<v: *elementname* id=" *idname* ">

**Script Syntax**

*elementname* .id =" *idname* "

*expression*=*elementname*.id

**Remarks**

Use **ID** to refer to a specific element. Once you have created a shape and given it an ID, you can use the ID name when you want to manipulate the element.

**ID** is required to use the [ShapeType](msdn-online-vml-shapetype-element.md) element.

When VML is generated by Microsoft Office, if an object model name is assigned to the shape, then **ID** is set to this name. If the object model name is not set, then the name is generated using the *Spid* (internal shape ID) plus a prefix (S for shape, M for master shape, T for shapetype).

*VML Standard Attribute*.

**Example**

To change the attributes of a shape, you must first give the shape an ID; for example, "myrect".


```HTML
   <v:rect id=myrect fillcolor="red"
   style="position:relative;top:1;left:1;width:20;height:20">
   </v:rect>
```




```HTML
   myrect.style.width = 80
   myrect.style.height = 80
   myrect.fillColor = "green"
```



[ID Attribute Example](/previous-versions/office/developer/speech-technologies/ms872141(v=msdn.10)#example). (Requires Microsoft Internet Explorer 5 or greater.)

 

 