---
title: System-Level and Object-Level Events
description: Microsoft Active Accessibility uses three classes of WinEvents system level, object level, and console.
ms.assetid: 3333fe6c-38cd-4e7e-be4b-94c9f824e7e7
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# System-Level and Object-Level Events

Microsoft Active Accessibility uses three classes of WinEvents: *system level*, *object level*, and *console*. Each has one of the following corresponding [event constant](event-constants.md) values:

-   Event constants that begin with EVENT\_SYSTEM identify system-level events. These events describe situations affecting all applications in the system.
-   Event constants that begin with EVENT\_OBJECT identify object-level events. These events pertain to situations specific to objects within one application.
-   Event constants that begin with EVENT\_CONSOLE identify console-level events. These events indicate changes in console windows.

Both the system- and object-level classes of events are generated by the operating system and server applications. The operating system generates system-level and object-level events for the following scenarios:

-   System-wide notifications about focus changes
-   Activation changes
-   Events regarding system-provided objects, such as common controls

Server applications generate system-level events for custom objects that replicate system objects, such as custom menus and scroll bars.

Server applications typically generate object-level events for changes to the accessible objects they contain, such as object creation, destruction, and selection.

Although the system generates object-level events for [**window**](window.md) objects, servers must also send object-level events for every accessible object contained in a window. For example, if a server application registers an application-defined window class to create a custom control, the system generates object-level events for the window that contains the custom control; the server generates object-level events for the accessible object that provides information about the control.

Servers only generate object-level events for the custom controls for which they implement the [**IAccessible**](/windows/desktop/api/oleacc/nn-oleacc-iaccessible) interface. For more information, see [Custom User Interface Elements](custom-user-interface-elements.md).

 

 




