desktop-src/lwef/endpointdlp-functions.md, before:

---
title: Endpoint data loss prevention functions
description: Functions used by the endpoint data loss prevention feature.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/18/2021
---

# Endpoint data loss prevention functions

Functions used by the endpoint data loss prevention feature.



| Functions                                                       | Description                                                           |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [DlpNotifyCloseDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyclosedocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document before the document close operation is initiated.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyCloseDocumentFile](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyclosedocumentfile.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document before the document close operation is initiated.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyEnterDropTarget](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyenterdroptarget.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document when a drop target is entered.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyLeaveDropTarget](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyleavedroptarget.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document when a drop target is exited.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostCopyToClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostcopytoclipboard.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document after a copy to clipboard operation is completed.  |
| [DlpNotifyPostDragDrop](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostdragdrop.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document after a drag drop operation is completed.  |
| [DlpNotifyPostOpenDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostopendocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after the open operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostOpenDocumentFile](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostopendocumentfile.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after the open operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostPasteFromClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostpastefromclipboard.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after a paste from clipboard operation has completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostPrint](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostprint.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after a print operation has completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostSaveAsDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostsaveasdocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after the save as operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostStartPrint](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypoststartprint.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after an print operation has started.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostStashClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypoststashclipboard.md)                       | Provides the system with status information after a stash clipboard operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPreCopyToClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyprecopytoclipboard.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a copy to clipboard operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreDragDrop](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypredragdrop.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a drag drop operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreOpenDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypreopendocument.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before the open operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreOpenDocumentFile](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypreopendocumentfile.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before the open operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPrePasteFromClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyprepastefromclipboard.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a paste from clipboard operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPrePrint](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypreprint.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a print operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreSaveDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypresaveasdocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document before a save as operation is initiated.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPreStashClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyprestashclipboard.md)                       | Notifies the system before a stash clipboard operation is initiated.                                  |

Commit message:

Adding initialization and version functions and associated APIs

desktop-src/lwef/endpointdlp-functions.md, after:

---
title: Endpoint data loss prevention functions
description: Functions used by the endpoint data loss prevention feature.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/18/2021
---

# Endpoint data loss prevention functions

Functions used by the endpoint data loss prevention feature.



| Functions                                                       | Description                                                           |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [DlpNotifyCloseDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyclosedocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document before the document close operation is initiated.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyCloseDocumentFile](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyclosedocumentfile.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document before the document close operation is initiated.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyEnterDropTarget](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyenterdroptarget.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document when a drop target is entered.                                  |
| [DlpGetEnforcementApiVersion](endpointdlp-dlpgetenforcementapiversion.md)                       | Retrieves the version of the endpoint Data Loss Prevention (DLP) API on the current device.                                  |
| [DlpInitializeEnforcementMode](endpointdlp-dlpinitializeenforcementmode.md)                       | Notifies the system of the desired enforcement modes for a set of endpoint Data Loss Prevention (DLP) operations.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyLeaveDropTarget](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyleavedroptarget.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document when a drop target is exited.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostCopyToClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostcopytoclipboard.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document after a copy to clipboard operation is completed.  |
| [DlpNotifyPostDragDrop](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostdragdrop.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document after a drag drop operation is completed.  |
| [DlpNotifyPostOpenDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostopendocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after the open operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostOpenDocumentFile](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostopendocumentfile.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after the open operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostPasteFromClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostpastefromclipboard.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after a paste from clipboard operation has completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostPrint](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostprint.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after a print operation has completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostSaveAsDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypostsaveasdocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after the save as operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostStartPrint](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypoststartprint.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document after an print operation has started.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPostStashClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypoststashclipboard.md)                       | Provides the system with status information after a stash clipboard operation is completed.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPreCopyToClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyprecopytoclipboard.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a copy to clipboard operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreDragDrop](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypredragdrop.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a drag drop operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreOpenDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypreopendocument.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before the open operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreOpenDocumentFile](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypreopendocumentfile.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before the open operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPrePasteFromClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyprepastefromclipboard.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a paste from clipboard operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPrePrint](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypreprint.md)                         | Provides the system with information about a document before a print operation is initiated.  |
| [DlpNotifyPreSaveDocument](endpointdlp-dlpnotifypresaveasdocument.md)                       | Provides the system with information about a document before a save as operation is initiated.                                  |
| [DlpNotifyPreStashClipboard](endpointdlp-dlpnotifyprestashclipboard.md)                       | Notifies the system before a stash clipboard operation is initiated.                                  |
