---
title: WM\_POINTERUP message
description: Posted when a pointer that made contact over the client area of a window breaks contact.
ms.assetid: 3bdc38da-227c-4be1-bf0b-99704b8a0111
keywords:
- WM_POINTERUP message Input Messages and Notifications
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- WM_POINTERUP
api_location:
- Winuser.h
api_type:
- HeaderDef
ms.date: 05/31/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: desktop
---

# WM\_POINTERUP message

Posted when a pointer that made contact over the client area of a window breaks contact. This input message targets the window over which the pointer makes contact and the pointer is, at that point, implicitly captured to the window so that the window continues to receive input messages including the **WM\_POINTERUP** notification for the pointer until it breaks contact.

A window receives this message through its [**WindowProc**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms633573) function.

> \[!Important\]  
> Desktop apps should be DPI aware. If your app is not DPI aware, screen coordinates contained in pointer messages and related structures might appear inaccurate due to DPI virtualization. DPI virtualization provides automatic scaling support to applications that are not DPI aware and is active by default (users can turn it off). For more information, see [Writing High-DPI Win32 Applications](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd464660).

 


```C++
#define WM_POINTERUP                  0x0247
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*wParam* 
</dt> <dd>

Contains information about the pointer. Use the following macros to retrieve information from the wParam parameter.

-   [**GET\_POINTERID\_WPARAM**](get-pointerid-wparam.md)(wParam): the pointer identifier.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_NEW\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-new-wparam.md)(wParam): a flag that indicates whether this message represents the first input generated by a new pointer.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_INRANGE\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-inrange-wparam.md)(wParam): a flag that indicates whether this message was generated by a pointer during its lifetime. This flag is not set on messages that indicate that the pointer has left detection range
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_INCONTACT\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-incontact-wparam.md)(wParam): a flag that indicates whether this message was generated by a pointer that is in contact with the window surface. This flag is not set on messages that indicate a hovering pointer.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_PRIMARY\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-primary-wparam.md)(wParam): indicates that this pointer has been designated as primary.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_FIRSTBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-firstbutton-wparam.md)(wParam): a flag that indicates whether there is a primary action.
    -   This is analogous to a mouse left button down.
    -   A touch pointer will have this set when it is in contact with the digitizer surface.
    -   A pen pointer will have this set when it is in contact with the digitizer surface with no buttons pressed.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_SECONDBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-secondbutton-wparam.md)(wParam): a flag that indicates whether there is a secondary action.
    -   This is analogous to a mouse right button down.
    -   A pen pointer will have this set when it is in contact with the digitizer surface with the pen barrel button pressed.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_THIRDBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-thirdbutton-wparam.md)(wParam): a flag that indicates whether there are one or more tertiary actions based on the pointer type; applications that wish to respond to tertiary actions must retrieve information specific to the pointer type to determine which tertiary buttons are pressed. For example, an application can determine the buttons states of a pen by calling [**GetPointerPenInfo**](getpointerpeninfo.md) and examining the flags that specify button states.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_FOURTHBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-fourthbutton-wparam.md)(wParam): a flag that indicates whether the specified pointer took fourth action. Applications that wish to respond to fourth actions must retrieve information specific to the pointer type to determine if the first extended mouse (XButton1) button is pressed.
-   [**IS\_POINTER\_FIFTHBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-fifthbutton-wparam.md)(wParam): a [**flag**](pointer-flags-contants.md) that indicates whether the specified pointer took fifth action. Applications that wish to respond to fifth actions must retrieve information specific to the pointer type to determine if the second extended mouse (XButton2) button is pressed.

    See [**Pointer Flags**](pointer-flags-contants.md) for more details.

    > [!Note]  
    > A hovering pointer has none of the button flags set. This is analogous to a mouse move with no mouse buttons down. An application can determine the buttons states of a hovering pen, for example, by calling [**GetPointerPenInfo**](getpointerpeninfo.md) and examining the flags that specify button states.

     

</dd> <dt>

*lParam* 
</dt> <dd>

Contains the point location of the pointer.

> [!Note]  
> Because the pointer may make contact with the device over a non-trivial area, this point location may be a simplification of a more complex pointer area. Whenever possible, an application should use the complete pointer area information instead of the point location.

 

Use the following macros to retrieve the physical screen coordinates of the point.

-   [**GET\_X\_LPARAM**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms632654)(lParam): the x (horizontal point) coordinate.
-   [**GET\_Y\_LPARAM**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms632655)(lParam): the y (vertical point) coordinate.

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

If an application processes this message, it should return zero.

If the application does not process this message, it should call [**DefWindowProc**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms633572).

## Remarks

> \[!Important\]  
> When a window loses capture of a pointer and it receives the [**WM\_POINTERCAPTURECHANGED**](wm-pointercapturechanged.md) notification, it typically will not receive any further notifications. For this reason, it is important that you not make any assumptions based on evenly paired [**WM\_POINTERDOWN**](wm-pointerdown.md)/**WM\_POINTERUP** or [**WM\_POINTERENTER**](wm-pointerenter.md)/[**WM\_POINTERLEAVE**](wm-pointerleave.md) notifications.

 

Each pointer has a unique pointer identifier during its lifetime. The lifetime of a pointer begins when it is first detected.

A [**WM\_POINTERENTER**](wm-pointerenter.md) message is generated if a hovering pointer is detected. A [**WM\_POINTERDOWN**](wm-pointerdown.md) message followed by a **WM\_POINTERENTER** message is generated if a non-hovering pointer is detected.

During its lifetime, a pointer may generate a series of [**WM\_POINTERUPDATE**](wm-pointerupdate.md) messages while it is hovering or in contact.

The lifetime of a pointer ends when it is no longer detected. This generates a [**WM\_POINTERLEAVE**](wm-pointerleave.md) message.

When a pointer is aborted, [**POINTER\_FLAG\_CANCELED**](pointer-flags-contants.md) is set.

A [**WM\_POINTERLEAVE**](wm-pointerleave.md) message may also be generated when a non-captured pointer moves outside the bounds of a window.

To obtain the horizontal and vertical position of a pointer, use the following:

Use the following code to obtain the horizontal and vertical position:


```
xPos = GET_X_LPARAM(lParam); 
yPos = GET_Y_LPARAM(lParam);
```



The [**MAKEPOINTS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd145043) macro can also be used to convert the lParam parameter to a [**POINTS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd162808) structure.

The [**GetKeyState**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms646301) function can be used to determine the keyboard modifier key states associated with this message. For example, to detect that the ALT key was pressed, check whether **GetKeyState**(VK\_MENU) &lt; 0.

If the application does not process this message, [**DefWindowProc**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms633572) may generate one or more [**WM\_GESTURE**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd353242)messages if the sequence of input from this and, possibly, other pointers is recognized as a gesture. If a gesture is not recognized, **DefWindowProc** may generate mouse input.

If an application selectively consumes some pointer input and passes the rest to [**DefWindowProc**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms633572), the resulting behavior is undefined.

Use the [**GetPointerInfo**](getpointerinfo.md) function to retrieve further information related to this message.

## Examples

The following code example shows how to retrieve the x and y position of the pointer associated witht this message.


```
int xPos = GET_X_LPARAM(lParam);
int yPos = GET_Y_LPARAM(lParam);

// process pointer up, similar to mouse button up
```



The following code example shows how to obtain the pointer id associated with this message.


```
POINTER_INFO pointerInfo;
UINT32       pointerId = GET_POINTERID_WPARAM(wParam);

// Retrieve common pointer information
if (!GetPointerInfo(pointerId, &amp;pointerInfo))
{
    
// failure, call GetLastError()
}
else
{
    // success, process pointerInfo
}


```



The following code example shows how to handle different pointer types associated with this message.


```
POINTER_TOUCH_INFO   touchInfo;
POINTER_PEN_INFO     penInfo;
POINTER_INFO pointerInfo;
UINT32       pointerId = GET_POINTERID_WPARAM(wParam);
POINTER_TYPE pointerType = PT_POINTER;

// default to unhandled to enable call to DefWindowProc
fHandled = FALSE;

if (!GetPointerType(pointerId, &amp;pointerType))
{
    // failure, call GetLastError()
    // set PT_POINTER to fall to default case below
    pointerType = PT_POINTER;
}

switch (pointerType)
{
case PT_TOUCH:
    // Retrieve touch information
    if (!GetPointerTouchInfo(pointerId, &amp;touchInfo))
    {
        // failure, call GetLastError()
    }
    else
    {
        // success, process touchInfo
        // mark as handled to skip call to DefWindowProc
        fHandled = TRUE;
    }
    break;
case PT_PEN:
    // Retrieve pen information
    if (!GetPointerPenInfo(pointerId, &amp;penInfo))
    {
        // failure, call GetLastError()
    }
    else
    {
        // success, process penInfo
        // mark as handled to skip call to DefWindowProc
        fHandled = TRUE;
    }
    break;
default:
    if (!GetPointerInfo(pointerId, &amp;pointerInfo)) 
    {
        // failure.
    } 
    else 
    {
        // success, proceed with pointerInfo.
        fHandled = HandleGenericPointerMessage(&amp;pointerInfo);
    }
    break;
}

```



## Requirements



|                                     |                                                                                                          |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minimum supported client<br/> | Windows 8 \[desktop apps only\]<br/>                                                               |
| Minimum supported server<br/> | Windows Server 2012 \[desktop apps only\]<br/>                                                     |
| Header<br/>                   | <dl> <dt>Winuser.h (include Windows.h)</dt> </dl> |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[Messages](messages.md)
</dt> <dt>

**Reference**
</dt> <dt>

[**Pointer Flags**](pointer-flags-contants.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**GET\_POINTERID\_WPARAM**](get-pointerid-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_NEW\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-new-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_INRANGE\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-inrange-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_INCONTACT\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-incontact-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_PRIMARY\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-primary-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_FIRSTBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-firstbutton-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_SECONDBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-secondbutton-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_THIRDBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-thirdbutton-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_FOURTHBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-fourthbutton-wparam.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**IS\_POINTER\_FIFTHBUTTON\_WPARAM**](is-pointer-fifthbutton-wparam.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 





