---
Description: The IPrintOemUni2WritePrinter method, if supported, enables a rendering plug-in to capture all output data generated by a Unidrv driver.
ms.assetid: 61901d4d-7821-40b4-aaef-fd679985abb3
title: IPrintOemUni2WritePrinter method
ms.date: 05/31/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: desktop
---

# IPrintOemUni2::WritePrinter method

The `IPrintOemUni2::WritePrinter` method, if supported, enables a rendering plug-in to capture all output data generated by a Unidrv driver. If this method is not supported, the output data would otherwise be sent to the spooler in a call to the spooler's WritePrinter API (described in the Microsoft Windows SDK documentation).

## Syntax


```C++
HRESULT WritePrinter(
   PDEVOBJ pdevobj,
   PVOID   pBuf,
   DWORD   cbBuffer,
   PDWORD  pcbWritten
);
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*pdevobj* 
</dt> <dd>

Pointer to a [**DEVOBJ**](devobj.md) structure.

</dd> <dt>

*pBuf* 
</dt> <dd>

Pointer to the first byte of an array of bytes that contains the output data generated by the Unidrv driver.

</dd> <dt>

*cbBuffer* 
</dt> <dd>

Specifies the size, in bytes, of the array pointed to by *pBuf*.

</dd> <dt>

*pcbWritten* 
</dt> <dd>

Pointer to a DWORD value that receives the number of bytes of data that were successfully sent to the plug-in.

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

If successful, this method returns S\_OK. Otherwise, this method should return an appropriate value in the returned HRESULT.

## Remarks

At [**DrvEnablePDEV**](display.drvenablepdev) time, the Unidrv driver calls this method with *pBuf* and *pdevobj* set to **NULL**, and *cbBuf* set to 0, to detect whether the plug-in implements this function. The plug-in should return S\_OK to indicate it implements this method, and should return E\_NOTIMPL otherwise.

This method should report the number of bytes written to the spooler's **WritePrinter** function in *pcbWritten*. A value of zero carries no special meaning; errors must be reported through the returned HRESULT.

The `IPrintOemUni2::WritePrinter` method is optional. If a rendering plug-in implements this method, the plug-in's [**IPrintOemUni::GetImplementedMethod**](iprintoemuni-getimplementedmethod.md) method must return S\_OK when it receives "WritePrinter" as input.

## Requirements



|                            |                                                                                                            |
|----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Target platform<br/> | <dl> <dt>Desktop</dt> </dl>                         |
| Header<br/>          | <dl> <dt>Prcomoem.h (include Prcomoem.h)</dt> </dl> |



 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bprint\print%5D:%20IPrintOemUni2::WritePrinter%20method%20%20RELEASE:%20%285/12/2018%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




