desktop-src/direct3d9/d3dcaps3.md, before:

---
description: Driver capability flags.
ms.assetid: d9cd7388-3413-472d-aacb-0b8c9c60031a
title: D3DCAPS3
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# D3DCAPS3

Driver capability flags.



<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 33%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>#define</td>
<td>Value</td>
<td>Description</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>D3DCAPS3_ALPHA_FULLSCREEN_FLIP_OR_DISCARD</td>
<td>0x00000020L</td>
<td>Indicates that the device can respect the D3DRS_ALPHABLENDENABLE render state in full-screen mode while using the FLIP or DISCARD swap effect. This only applies when the D3DRS_SRCBLEND or D3DRS_DESTBLEND states are set to one of the following:
<ul>
<li>D3DBLEND_DESTALPHA</li>
<li>D3DBLEND_INVDESTALPHA</li>
<li>D3DBLEND_DESTCOLOR</li>
<li>D3DBLEND_INVDESTCOLOR</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>D3DCAPS3_COPY_TO_VIDMEM</td>
<td>0x00000100L</td>
<td>Device can accelerate a memory copy from system memory to local video memory. This cap guarantees that <a href="/windows/desktop/api"><strong>UpdateSurface</strong></a> and <a href="/windows/desktop/api"><strong>UpdateTexture</strong></a> calls will be hardware accelerated. If this cap is absent, these calls will succeed but will be slower.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>D3DCAPS3_COPY_TO_SYSTEMMEM</td>
<td>0x00000200L</td>
<td>Device can accelerate a memory copy from local video memory to system memory. This cap guarantees that <a href="/windows/desktop/api"><strong>GetRenderTargetData</strong></a> calls will be hardware accelerated. If this cap is absent, this call will succeed but will be slower.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>D3DCAPS3_DXVAHD</td>
<td>0x00000400L</td>
<td>The display driver supports the DXVA-HD DDI. For more information about DXVA-HD DDI, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dd835176.aspx">Processing High-Definition Video</a>.<br/> 
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Differences between Direct3D 9 and Direct3D 9Ex:<br/> This flag is available in Direct3D 9Ex only.<br/></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<p> </p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>D3DCAPS3_LINEAR_TO_SRGB_PRESENTATION</td>
<td>0x00000080L</td>
<td>Indicates that the device can perform gamma correction from a windowed back buffer (containing linear content) to an sRGB desktop.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>D3DCAPS3_RESERVED</td>
<td>0x8000001fL</td>
<td>Reserved; not used.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



 

These constants are used by the D3CAPS3 member of [**D3DCAPS9**](/windows/desktop/api/D3D9Caps/ns-d3d9caps-d3dcaps9).

## Constant Information



|  Requirement                        | Value           |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Header                   | d3d9caps.h |
| Minimum operating system | Windows 98 |



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Direct3D Constants](dx9-graphics-reference-d3d-constants.md)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

Message fixes: duplicate-descriptions [BULK UPDATE] (#1055)
* Fix build suggestions.

* Additional fixes.

desktop-src/direct3d9/d3dcaps3.md, after:

---
description: See a list of D3DCAPS3 driver capability flags. Includes the definitions, values, and descriptions with links to APIs.
ms.assetid: d9cd7388-3413-472d-aacb-0b8c9c60031a
title: D3DCAPS3
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# D3DCAPS3

Driver capability flags.



<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 33%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>#define</td>
<td>Value</td>
<td>Description</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>D3DCAPS3_ALPHA_FULLSCREEN_FLIP_OR_DISCARD</td>
<td>0x00000020L</td>
<td>Indicates that the device can respect the D3DRS_ALPHABLENDENABLE render state in full-screen mode while using the FLIP or DISCARD swap effect. This only applies when the D3DRS_SRCBLEND or D3DRS_DESTBLEND states are set to one of the following:
<ul>
<li>D3DBLEND_DESTALPHA</li>
<li>D3DBLEND_INVDESTALPHA</li>
<li>D3DBLEND_DESTCOLOR</li>
<li>D3DBLEND_INVDESTCOLOR</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>D3DCAPS3_COPY_TO_VIDMEM</td>
<td>0x00000100L</td>
<td>Device can accelerate a memory copy from system memory to local video memory. This cap guarantees that <a href="/windows/desktop/api"><strong>UpdateSurface</strong></a> and <a href="/windows/desktop/api"><strong>UpdateTexture</strong></a> calls will be hardware accelerated. If this cap is absent, these calls will succeed but will be slower.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>D3DCAPS3_COPY_TO_SYSTEMMEM</td>
<td>0x00000200L</td>
<td>Device can accelerate a memory copy from local video memory to system memory. This cap guarantees that <a href="/windows/desktop/api"><strong>GetRenderTargetData</strong></a> calls will be hardware accelerated. If this cap is absent, this call will succeed but will be slower.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>D3DCAPS3_DXVAHD</td>
<td>0x00000400L</td>
<td>The display driver supports the DXVA-HD DDI. For more information about DXVA-HD DDI, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dd835176.aspx">Processing High-Definition Video</a>.<br/> 
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Differences between Direct3D 9 and Direct3D 9Ex:<br/> This flag is available in Direct3D 9Ex only.<br/></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<p> </p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>D3DCAPS3_LINEAR_TO_SRGB_PRESENTATION</td>
<td>0x00000080L</td>
<td>Indicates that the device can perform gamma correction from a windowed back buffer (containing linear content) to an sRGB desktop.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>D3DCAPS3_RESERVED</td>
<td>0x8000001fL</td>
<td>Reserved; not used.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



 

These constants are used by the D3CAPS3 member of [**D3DCAPS9**](/windows/desktop/api/D3D9Caps/ns-d3d9caps-d3dcaps9).

## Constant Information



|  Requirement                        | Value           |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Header                   | d3d9caps.h |
| Minimum operating system | Windows 98 |



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Direct3D Constants](dx9-graphics-reference-d3d-constants.md)
</dt> </dl>
