desktop-src/direct3d9/d3dx-channel.md, before:

---
description: The following flags are used to specify which channels in a texture to operate on.
ms.assetid: b592b42a-0af1-49df-b159-4b84e4e12c95
title: D3DX_CHANNEL
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# D3DX\_CHANNEL

The following flags are used to specify which channels in a texture to operate on.



| \#define                 | Description                                                                   |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_RED       | Indicates the red channel should be used.                                     |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_BLUE      | Indicates the blue channel should be used.                                    |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_GREEN     | Indicates the green channel should be used.                                   |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_ALPHA     | Indicates the alpha channel should be used.                                   |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_LUMINANCE | Indicates the luminances of the red, green, and blue channels should be used. |



 

## Constant Information



|                          |            |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Header                   | d3dx9tex.h |
| Minimum operating system | Windows 98 |



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[D3DX Constants](dx9-graphics-reference-d3dx-constants.md)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

Message fixes: Header and duplicate description validation 3 [BULK] (#1022)
* Header validation.

* Consistent casing (at least, within the table)

The first two words of the topic imply that "Render states" is the correct sentence-casing. So I just tweaked that table header. We still have endemic issues across the docs with incorrect casing (for example, the "Render States (Direct3D 9)" topic title), but we're fixing that kind of thing as we go. :)

Co-authored-by: Steven White <stwhi@microsoft.com>

desktop-src/direct3d9/d3dx-channel.md, after:

---
description: Learn about the flags that are used to specify which channels in a texture to operate on, like D3DX\_CHANNEL\_RED.
ms.assetid: b592b42a-0af1-49df-b159-4b84e4e12c95
title: D3DX_CHANNEL
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# D3DX\_CHANNEL

The following flags are used to specify which channels in a texture to operate on.



| \#define                 | Description                                                                   |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_RED       | Indicates the red channel should be used.                                     |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_BLUE      | Indicates the blue channel should be used.                                    |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_GREEN     | Indicates the green channel should be used.                                   |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_ALPHA     | Indicates the alpha channel should be used.                                   |
| D3DX\_CHANNEL\_LUMINANCE | Indicates the luminances of the red, green, and blue channels should be used. |



 

## Constant Information



| Requirement                         | Value           |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Header                   | d3dx9tex.h |
| Minimum operating system | Windows 98 |



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[D3DX Constants](dx9-graphics-reference-d3dx-constants.md)
</dt> </dl>
