---
description: Reports an event generated by WMI in response to a consumers request for an interval timer event or an absolute timer event.
ms.assetid: 5ae29312-cfda-42c9-a154-e5bb31819be0
ms.tgt_platform: multiple
title: __TimerEvent class
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/31/2018
topic_type: 
- APIRef
- kbSyntax
api_name: 
- __TimerEvent
- All
- All
- All
- All
api_type: 
- Schema
api_location: 
- All
---

# \_\_TimerEvent class

The **\_\_TimerEvent** system class is reports an event generated by WMI in response to a consumer's request for an interval timer event or an absolute timer event. An interval timer event is an event that occurs at regular intervals. An absolute timer event is an event that occurs at a specific time. Timer events can occur in any namespace.

The following syntax is simplified from Managed Object Format (MOF) code and includes all inherited properties. Properties are listed in alphabetic order, not MOF order.

## Syntax

``` syntax
class __TimerEvent : __Event
{
  uint32 NumFirings;
  uint8  SECURITY_DESCRIPTOR[];
  string TimerId;
  uint64 TIME_CREATED;
};
```

## Members

The **\_\_TimerEvent** class has these types of members:

-   [Properties](#properties)

### Properties

The **\_\_TimerEvent** class has these properties.

<dl> <dt>

**NumFirings**
</dt> <dd> <dl> <dt>

Data type: **uint32**
</dt> <dt>

Access type: Read-only
</dt> </dl>

Number of times the event occurred before a notification was delivered to the consumer.

</dd> <dt>

**SECURITY\_DESCRIPTOR**
</dt> <dd> <dl> <dt>

Data type: **uint8** array
</dt> <dt>

Access type: Read-only
</dt> </dl>

Descriptor used by the event provider to determine which users can receive the event. This property is inherited from [**\_\_Event**](--event.md).

</dd> <dt>

**TIME\_CREATED**
</dt> <dd> <dl> <dt>

Data type: **uint64**
</dt> <dt>

Access type: Read-only
</dt> </dl>

Unique value that indicates the time at which the event was generated. This is a 64-bit value that represents the number of 100-nanosecond intervals after January 1, 1601. The information is in the Coordinated Universal Times (UTC) format. This property is inherited from [**\_\_Event**](--event.md).

For more information about using **uint64** values in scripts, see [Scripting in WMI](/windows/desktop/WmiSdk/creating-a-wmi-script).

</dd> <dt>

**TimerId**
</dt> <dd> <dl> <dt>

Data type: **string**
</dt> <dt>

Access type: Read-only
</dt> </dl>

Instance of the [**\_\_TimerInstruction**](--timerinstruction.md) subclass that caused WMI to fire this event. Consumers specify a timer identification in the **TimerId** property of the **\_\_TimerInstruction** subclass that they create to register.

</dd> </dl>

## Remarks

The **\_\_TimerEvent** class is derived from [**\_\_Event**](--event.md).

Event consumers register for an absolute timer event by creating an instance of the [**\_\_AbsoluteTimerInstruction**](--absolutetimerinstruction.md) system class. They register for an interval timer event by creating an instance of the [**\_\_IntervalTimerInstruction**](--intervaltimerinstruction.md) system class.

During normal operation, the **NumFirings** property is set to 1. When it is not possible to reach the consumer or the firing interval is much quicker than the ability to deliver the event, **NumFirings** is set to a number greater than 1. When **NumFirings** is greater than 1, WMI automatically merges many timer events into the same event. This merging is similar to what occurs with [**WM\_TIMER**](/windows/desktop/winmsg/wm-timer) messages in Windows programming.

## Requirements



| Requirement | Value |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| Minimum supported client<br/> | Windows Vista<br/>       |
| Minimum supported server<br/> | Windows Server 2008<br/> |
| Namespace<br/>                | All WMI namespaces<br/>  |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[**\_\_Event**](/windows/desktop/WmiSdk/--event)
</dt> <dt>

[WMI System Classes](wmi-system-classes.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Receiving Timed or Repeating Events](receiving-a-timed-or-repeating-event.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Receiving Events at All Times](receiving-events-at-all-times.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Receiving Events for the Duration of Your Application](receiving-events-for-the-duration-of-your-application.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

