---
description: The OBJECTS clause of the NOTIFICATION-TYPE macro enumerates the set of objects associated with the notification object.
ms.assetid: 0cb4776f-aae2-452d-9472-caf6d28fb870
ms.tgt_platform: multiple
title: OBJECTS Clause
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# OBJECTS Clause

The OBJECTS clause of the [NOTIFICATION-TYPE](notification-type-macro.md) macro enumerates the set of objects associated with the notification object.

> [!Note]  
> For more information about installing the provider, see [Setting up the WMI SNMP Environment](setting-up-the-wmi-snmp-environment.md).

 

The following rules apply when mapping to CIM classes:

-   Each member of the OBJECTS clause maps to a property of the CIM class definition. The object descriptor of the member maps verbatim to the CIM property name. For example, **ifIndex** translates to **ifIndex**.
-   Each CIM property generated by the mapping process contains the **VarBindIndex** qualifier.

    **VarBindIndex** is a **uint32** mandatory qualifier that describes the position of the object as it appears in the OBJECTS clause of the [TRAP-TYPE](trap-type-macro.md) or the [NOTIFICATION-TYPE](notification-type-macro.md) macro. The integer also specifies the position of the property as it appears in the variable bindings list of the SNMPv1 or SNMPv2C TRAP PDU (protocol data unit), respectively. (Because the first two variable bindings are always TimeStamp and Identification, any additional variables are numbered after the value 2.)

    When the CIM event class is generated from an SNMPv1 [TRAP-TYPE](trap-type-macro.md) macro, the **VarBindIndex** qualifier has an initial value of 1 for the first variable in the variable bindings list.

    When the CIM event class is generated from an SNMPv2C [NOTIFICATION-TYPE](notification-type-macro.md) macro, the **VarBindIndex** qualifier has an initial value of 3 for the first variable in the variable bindings list.

When mapping an encapsulated CIM class, each member of the OBJECTS clause maps to a CIM property that reflects the name, type, and value of the corresponding MIB object. The mapping procedures used are specified in following topics:

-   [SYNTAX Clause](syntax-clause.md)
-   [TEXTUAL-CONVENTION Macro](textual-convention-macro.md)
-   [ACCESS and MAX-ACCESS Clauses](access-and-max-access-clauses.md)

When using a referent CIM class, each member of the OBJECTS clause maps as follows:

-   Each member of the OBJECTS clause maps to a single property of the CIM class. The property is strongly typed as an embedded object.
-   The class of the embedded object is generated through the standard object mapping procedure. For more information, see [OBJECT-TYPE Macro](object-type-macro.md). For example, **ifTable** maps to an embedded class named **SNMP\_RFC1213\_MIB\_ifTable**.
-   The values associated with the variable bindings of a TRAP PDU are instantiated as embedded objects of an object of the referent class. Each embedded object contains values for each of the keyed properties of the object and the value of the property in the variable binding being mapped.

 

 



