desktop-src/direct3d11/d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11.md, before:

---
title: D3DX 11 Reference
description: The D3DX 11 API is described in this section.
ms.assetid: 78520da0-4be0-42d8-93a4-9bd17ef50007
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# D3DX 11 Reference

The D3DX 11 API is described in this section.

> [!Note]  
> The D3DX (D3DX 9, D3DX 10, and D3DX 11) utility library is deprecated for Windows 8 and is not supported for Windows Store apps.

 


## In this section



| Topic                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [D3DX Interfaces](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-interfaces.md)<br/> | This section contains reference information for the component object model (COM) interfaces provided by the D3DX utility library.<br/> |
| [D3DX Functions](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-functions.md)<br/>   | This section contains information about the D3DX 11 functions.<br/>                                                                    |
| [D3DX Structures](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-structures.md)<br/> | This section contains information about the D3DX 11 structures.<br/>                                                                   |
| [D3DX Enumerations](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-enums.md)<br/>    | This section contains information about D3DX 11 enumerations.<br/>                                                                     |



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Direct3D 11 Reference](atoc-d3d11-graphics-reference.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Direct3D 11 Reference](d3d11-graphics-reference.md)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

D3DX11 note
Add note about Microsoft.DXSDK.D3DX NuGet

desktop-src/direct3d11/d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11.md, after:

---
title: D3DX 11 Reference
description: The D3DX 11 API is described in this section.
ms.assetid: 78520da0-4be0-42d8-93a4-9bd17ef50007
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# D3DX 11 Reference

The D3DX 11 API is described in this section.

> [!Note]  
> The D3DX (D3DX 9, D3DX 10, and D3DX 11) utility library is deprecated for Windows 8 and is not supported for Windows Store apps. For details on recommended replacements for D3DX11, see [this article](https://walbourn.github.io/living-without-d3dx/). For older projects, you can make use of the [Microsoft.DXSDK.D3DX](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.DXSDK.D3DX) NuGet package rather than relying on the legacy DirectX SDK or DirectSetup.



## In this section



| Topic                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [D3DX Interfaces](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-interfaces.md)<br/> | This section contains reference information for the component object model (COM) interfaces provided by the D3DX utility library.<br/> |
| [D3DX Functions](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-functions.md)<br/>   | This section contains information about the D3DX 11 functions.<br/>                                                                    |
| [D3DX Structures](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-structures.md)<br/> | This section contains information about the D3DX 11 structures.<br/>                                                                   |
| [D3DX Enumerations](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3dx11-enums.md)<br/>    | This section contains information about D3DX 11 enumerations.<br/>                                                                     |



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Direct3D 11 Reference](atoc-d3d11-graphics-reference.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Direct3D 11 Reference](d3d11-graphics-reference.md)
</dt> </dl>
