desktop-src/direct3d11/d3d11-graphics-reference-d3d11-core-structures.md, before:

---
title: Direct3D 11 core structures
description: This section contains information about the core structures.
ms.assetid: 2a45182a-7114-4075-b8b8-147f52fe7aa9
keywords:
- structures, Direct3D 11 Core
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Direct3D 11 core structures

This section contains information about the core structures.

## In this section


| Topic | Description | 
|-------|-------------|
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_blend_desc"><strong>D3D11_BLEND_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes the blend state that you use in a call to <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11device-createblendstate"><strong>ID3D11Device::CreateBlendState</strong></a> to create a blend-state object. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/ns-d3d11_1-cd3d11_blend_desc1"><strong>D3D11_BLEND_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes the blend state that you use in a call to <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/nf-d3d11_1-id3d11device1-createblendstate1"><strong>ID3D11Device1::CreateBlendState1</strong></a> to create a blend-state object. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_box"><strong>D3D11_BOX</strong></a><br /> | Defines a 3D box.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_counter_desc"><strong>D3D11_COUNTER_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes a counter.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_counter_info"><strong>D3D11_COUNTER_INFO</strong></a><br /> | Information about the video card's performance counter capabilities.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_depth_stencil_desc"><strong>D3D11_DEPTH_STENCIL_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes depth-stencil state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_depth_stencilop_desc"><strong>D3D11_DEPTH_STENCILOP_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Stencil operations that can be performed based on the results of stencil test.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_draw_indexed_instanced_indirect_args"><strong>D3D11_DRAW_INDEXED_INSTANCED_INDIRECT_ARGS</strong></a><br /> | Arguments for draw indexed instanced indirect. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_draw_instanced_indirect_args"><strong>D3D11_DRAW_INSTANCED_INDIRECT_ARGS</strong></a><br /> | Arguments for draw instanced indirect. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_architecture_info"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_ARCHITECTURE_INFO</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes information about Direct3D 11.1 adapter architecture.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_options"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_OPTIONS</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes Direct3D 9 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_options1"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_OPTIONS1</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 9 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_shadow_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_SHADOW_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes Direct3D 9 shadow support in the current graphics driver. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_simple_instancing_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_SIMPLE_INSTANCING_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes whether simple instancing is supported.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d10_x_hardware_options"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D10_X_HARDWARE_OPTIONS</strong></a><br /> | Describes compute shader and raw and structured buffer support in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes Direct3D 11.1 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options1"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS1</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.2 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options2"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS2</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.3 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options3"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS3</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.3 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11_4/ns-d3d11_4-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options4"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS4</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.4 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options5"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS5</strong></a><br /> | Describes the level of support for shared resources in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_doubles"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_DOUBLES</strong></a><br /> | Describes double data type support in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_format_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_FORMAT_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes which resources are supported by the current graphics driver for a given format.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_format_support2"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_FORMAT_SUPPORT2</strong></a><br /> | Describes which unordered resource options are supported by the current graphics driver for a given format.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_gpu_virtual_address_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_GPU_VIRTUAL_ADDRESS_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes feature data GPU virtual address support, including maximum address bits per resource and per process. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_marker_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_MARKER_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes whether a GPU profiling technique is supported.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_shader_cache"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_SHADER_CACHE</strong></a><br /> | Describes the level of shader caching supported in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_shader_min_precision_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_SHADER_MIN_PRECISION_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes precision support options for shaders in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_threading"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_THREADING</strong></a><br /> | Describes the multi-threading features that are supported by the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_input_element_desc"><strong>D3D11_INPUT_ELEMENT_DESC</strong></a><br /> | A description of a single element for the input-assembler stage.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_data_pipeline_statistics"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DATA_PIPELINE_STATISTICS</strong></a><br /> | Query information about graphics-pipeline activity in between calls to <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-begin"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::Begin</strong></a> and <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-end"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::End</strong></a>.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_data_so_statistics"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DATA_SO_STATISTICS</strong></a><br /> | Query information about the amount of data streamed out to the stream-output buffers in between <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-begin"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::Begin</strong></a> and <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-end"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::End</strong></a>.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_data_timestamp_disjoint"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DATA_TIMESTAMP_DISJOINT</strong></a><br /> | Query information about the reliability of a timestamp query.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_desc"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes a query.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_3/ns-d3d11_3-cd3d11_query_desc1"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | Describes a query.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_rasterizer_desc"><strong>D3D11_RASTERIZER_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes rasterizer state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/ns-d3d11_1-cd3d11_rasterizer_desc1"><strong>D3D11_RASTERIZER_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes rasterizer state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_3/ns-d3d11_3-cd3d11_rasterizer_desc2"><strong>D3D11_RASTERIZER_DESC2</strong></a><br /> | Describes rasterizer state.<br /> | 
| <a href="d3d11-rect.md"><strong>D3D11_RECT</strong></a><br /> | D3D11_RECT is declared as follows:<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_render_target_blend_desc"><strong>D3D11_RENDER_TARGET_BLEND_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes the blend state for a render target.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/ns-d3d11_1-d3d11_render_target_blend_desc1"><strong>D3D11_RENDER_TARGET_BLEND_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes the blend state for a render target.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_sampler_desc"><strong>D3D11_SAMPLER_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes a sampler state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_so_declaration_entry"><strong>D3D11_SO_DECLARATION_ENTRY</strong></a><br /> | Description of a vertex element in a vertex buffer in an output slot.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_viewport"><strong>D3D11_VIEWPORT</strong></a><br /> | Defines the dimensions of a viewport.<br /> | 


In addition, there's a 2D rectangle structure defined in D3D11.h.

```cpp
typedef RECT D3D11_RECT;
```

For documentation, see [RECT](/previous-versions/dd162897%28v%3dvs.85%29) in [Windows GDI](../gdi/windows-gdi.md).

## Related topics

[Core Reference](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3d11-core.md)

Commit message:

documenting the displayable surfaces feature (#1391)

desktop-src/direct3d11/d3d11-graphics-reference-d3d11-core-structures.md, after:

---
title: Direct3D 11 core structures
description: This section contains information about the core structures.
ms.assetid: 2a45182a-7114-4075-b8b8-147f52fe7aa9
keywords:
- structures, Direct3D 11 Core
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Direct3D 11 core structures

This section contains information about the core structures.

## In this section

| Topic | Description | 
|-------|-------------|
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_blend_desc"><strong>D3D11_BLEND_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes the blend state that you use in a call to <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11device-createblendstate"><strong>ID3D11Device::CreateBlendState</strong></a> to create a blend-state object. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/ns-d3d11_1-cd3d11_blend_desc1"><strong>D3D11_BLEND_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes the blend state that you use in a call to <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/nf-d3d11_1-id3d11device1-createblendstate1"><strong>ID3D11Device1::CreateBlendState1</strong></a> to create a blend-state object. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_box"><strong>D3D11_BOX</strong></a><br /> | Defines a 3D box.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_counter_desc"><strong>D3D11_COUNTER_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes a counter.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_counter_info"><strong>D3D11_COUNTER_INFO</strong></a><br /> | Information about the video card's performance counter capabilities.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_depth_stencil_desc"><strong>D3D11_DEPTH_STENCIL_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes depth-stencil state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_depth_stencilop_desc"><strong>D3D11_DEPTH_STENCILOP_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Stencil operations that can be performed based on the results of stencil test.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_draw_indexed_instanced_indirect_args"><strong>D3D11_DRAW_INDEXED_INSTANCED_INDIRECT_ARGS</strong></a><br /> | Arguments for draw indexed instanced indirect. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_draw_instanced_indirect_args"><strong>D3D11_DRAW_INSTANCED_INDIRECT_ARGS</strong></a><br /> | Arguments for draw instanced indirect. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_architecture_info"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_ARCHITECTURE_INFO</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes information about Direct3D 11.1 adapter architecture.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_options"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_OPTIONS</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes Direct3D 9 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_options1"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_OPTIONS1</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 9 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_shadow_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_SHADOW_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes Direct3D 9 shadow support in the current graphics driver. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d9_simple_instancing_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D9_SIMPLE_INSTANCING_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes whether simple instancing is supported.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d10_x_hardware_options"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D10_X_HARDWARE_OPTIONS</strong></a><br /> | Describes compute shader and raw and structured buffer support in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes Direct3D 11.1 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options1"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS1</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.2 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options2"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS2</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.3 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options3"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS3</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.3 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11_4/ns-d3d11_4-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options4"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS4</strong></a><br /> | Describes Direct3D 11.4 feature options in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_d3d11_options5"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_D3D11_OPTIONS5</strong></a><br /> | Describes the level of support for shared resources in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| [**D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_DISPLAYABLE**](/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_displayable) | Describes the level of displayable surfaces supported in the current graphics driver. |
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_doubles"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_DOUBLES</strong></a><br /> | Describes double data type support in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_format_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_FORMAT_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes which resources are supported by the current graphics driver for a given format.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_format_support2"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_FORMAT_SUPPORT2</strong></a><br /> | Describes which unordered resource options are supported by the current graphics driver for a given format.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_gpu_virtual_address_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_GPU_VIRTUAL_ADDRESS_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes feature data GPU virtual address support, including maximum address bits per resource and per process. <br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_marker_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_MARKER_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | Describes whether a GPU profiling technique is supported.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/d3d11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_shader_cache"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_SHADER_CACHE</strong></a><br /> | Describes the level of shader caching supported in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_shader_min_precision_support"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_SHADER_MIN_PRECISION_SUPPORT</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes precision support options for shaders in the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_feature_data_threading"><strong>D3D11_FEATURE_DATA_THREADING</strong></a><br /> | Describes the multi-threading features that are supported by the current graphics driver.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_input_element_desc"><strong>D3D11_INPUT_ELEMENT_DESC</strong></a><br /> | A description of a single element for the input-assembler stage.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_data_pipeline_statistics"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DATA_PIPELINE_STATISTICS</strong></a><br /> | Query information about graphics-pipeline activity in between calls to <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-begin"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::Begin</strong></a> and <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-end"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::End</strong></a>.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_data_so_statistics"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DATA_SO_STATISTICS</strong></a><br /> | Query information about the amount of data streamed out to the stream-output buffers in between <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-begin"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::Begin</strong></a> and <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/nf-d3d11-id3d11devicecontext-end"><strong>ID3D11DeviceContext::End</strong></a>.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_data_timestamp_disjoint"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DATA_TIMESTAMP_DISJOINT</strong></a><br /> | Query information about the reliability of a timestamp query.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_query_desc"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes a query.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_3/ns-d3d11_3-cd3d11_query_desc1"><strong>D3D11_QUERY_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | Describes a query.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_rasterizer_desc"><strong>D3D11_RASTERIZER_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes rasterizer state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/ns-d3d11_1-cd3d11_rasterizer_desc1"><strong>D3D11_RASTERIZER_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes rasterizer state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_3/ns-d3d11_3-cd3d11_rasterizer_desc2"><strong>D3D11_RASTERIZER_DESC2</strong></a><br /> | Describes rasterizer state.<br /> | 
| <a href="d3d11-rect.md"><strong>D3D11_RECT</strong></a><br /> | D3D11_RECT is declared as follows:<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_render_target_blend_desc"><strong>D3D11_RENDER_TARGET_BLEND_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes the blend state for a render target.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11_1/ns-d3d11_1-d3d11_render_target_blend_desc1"><strong>D3D11_RENDER_TARGET_BLEND_DESC1</strong></a><br /> | <blockquote>[!Note]<br />This structure is supported by the Direct3D 11.1 runtime, which is available on Windows 8 and later operating systems.</blockquote><br /> Describes the blend state for a render target.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_sampler_desc"><strong>D3D11_SAMPLER_DESC</strong></a><br /> | Describes a sampler state.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_so_declaration_entry"><strong>D3D11_SO_DECLARATION_ENTRY</strong></a><br /> | Description of a vertex element in a vertex buffer in an output slot.<br /> | 
| <a href="/windows/win32/api/D3D11/ns-d3d11-d3d11_viewport"><strong>D3D11_VIEWPORT</strong></a><br /> | Defines the dimensions of a viewport.<br /> | 


In addition, there's a 2D rectangle structure defined in D3D11.h.

```cpp
typedef RECT D3D11_RECT;
```

For documentation, see [RECT](/previous-versions/dd162897%28v%3dvs.85%29) in [Windows GDI](../gdi/windows-gdi.md).

## Related topics

[Core Reference](d3d11-graphics-reference-d3d11-core.md)
