---
title: Vertex-shader stage
description: The vertex-shader (VS) stage processes vertices from the input assembler, performing per-vertex operations such as transformations, skinning, morphing, and per-vertex lighting.
ms.assetid: C6A39F48-A243-4049-8AED-0B521BEDFA76
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Vertex-shader stage

The vertex-shader (VS) stage processes vertices from the input assembler, performing per-vertex operations such as transformations, skinning, morphing, and per-vertex lighting. Vertex shaders always operate on a single input vertex and produce a single output vertex. The vertex-shader stage must always be active for the pipeline to execute. If no vertex modification or transformation is required, a pass-through vertex shader must be created and set to the pipeline.

## The Vertex-shader

Each vertex shader input vertex can be comprised of up to 16 32-bit vectors (up to 4 components each) and each output vertex can be comprised of as many as 16 32-bit 4-component vectors. All vertex-shaders must have a minimum of one input and one output, which can be as little as one scalar value.

The vertex-shader stage can consume two system generated values from the input assembler: VertexID and InstanceID (see [System-value semantics](/windows/win32/direct3dhlsl/dx-graphics-hlsl-semantics#system-value-semantics)). Since VertexID and InstanceID are both meaningful at a vertex level, and IDs generated by hardware can only be fed into the first stage that understands them, these ID values can only be fed into the vertex-shader stage.

Vertex shaders are always run on all vertices, including adjacent vertices in input primitive topologies with adjacency. The number of times that the vertex-shader has been executed can be queried from the CPU using the VSInvocations pipeline statistic.

A vertex-shader can perform load and texture sampling operations where screen-space derivatives are not required (using HLSL intrinsic functions: [Sample (DirectX HLSL Texture Object)](/windows/desktop/direct3dhlsl/dx-graphics-hlsl-to-sample), [SampleCmpLevelZero (DirectX HLSL Texture Object)](/windows/desktop/direct3dhlsl/dx-graphics-hlsl-to-samplecmplevelzero), and [SampleGrad (DirectX HLSL Texture Object)](/windows/desktop/direct3dhlsl/dx-graphics-hlsl-to-samplegrad)).

## Related topics

* [Graphics pipeline](overviews-direct3d-11-graphics-pipeline.md)
* [Pipeline stages (Direct3D 10)](/windows/desktop/direct3d10/d3d10-graphics-programming-guide-pipeline-stages)
