---
description: Event tracing sessions record events from one or more providers that a controller enables.
ms.assetid: '6e446ee3-47a3-4fe1-9eb7-3dd74cad4e56'
title: Event Tracing Sessions
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Event Tracing Sessions

Event tracing sessions record events from one or more [providers](providing-events.md) that a [controller](controlling-event-tracing-sessions.md) enables. The session is also responsible for managing and flushing the buffers. The controller defines the session, which typically includes specifying the session and log file name, type of log file to use, and the resolution of the time stamp used to record the events.

Event Tracing supports a maximum of 64 event tracing sessions executing simultaneously. Of these sessions, there are two special purpose sessions. The remaining sessions are available for general use. The two special purpose sessions are:

-   Global Logger Session
-   NT Kernel Logger Session

The Global Logger event tracing session records events that occur early in the operating system boot process, such as those generated by device drivers. For information on configuring the Global Logger event tracing session, see [Configuring and Starting the Global Logger Session](configuring-and-starting-the-global-logger-session.md).

The NT Kernel Logger event tracing session records predefined system events generated by the operating system, for example, disk IO or page fault events. For information on configuring the NT Kernel Logger event tracing session, [Configuring and Starting the NT Kernel Logger Session](configuring-and-starting-the-nt-kernel-logger-session.md).

For information on defining a regular event tracing session, see [Configuring and Starting an Event Tracing Session](configuring-and-starting-an-event-tracing-session.md).

**Windows 2000:** Supports only 32 event tracing sessions.

 

 



