---
title: Management Tools Task Manager WMI Provider
description: The Management Tools Task Manager WMI Provider allows management of the Tools Tasks manager.
audience: developer
author: REDMOND\\markl
manager: REDMOND\\markl
ms.assetid: 411216bc-0332-4cc8-b0e3-0c566fae9168
ms.prod: windows-server-dev
ms.technology: windows-management-instrumentation
ms.tgt_platform: multiple
ms.date: 05/31/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.author: windowssdkdev
---

# Management Tools Task Manager WMI Provider

## Purpose

The Management Tools Task Manager WMI Provider allows management of the Tools Tasks manager. The classes are defined in MtTmProv.mof and implemented in MtTmProv.dll

## In this section

<dl> <dt>

[**CIM\_ManagedElement**](cim-managedelement.md)
</dt> <dd>

ManagedElement is an abstract class that provides a common superclass (or top of the inheritance tree) for the non-association classes in the CIM Schema.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTDisk**](msft-mtdisk.md)
</dt> <dd>

The disk drive data object. Statistic data is calculated based on current interval seconds setting.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTDiskVolume**](msft-mtdiskvolume.md)
</dt> <dd>

The disk volume data object.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTEventChannel**](msft-mteventchannel.md)
</dt> <dd>

Encapsulates the properties of the Windows event channel. Can also be used to perform operations related to the particular event channel.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTEventProvider**](msft-mteventprovider.md)
</dt> <dd>

Encapsulates the properties of Windows event provider. Can also be used to enumerate all the event providers in the computer.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTEventRecord**](msft-mteventrecord.md)
</dt> <dd>

Represents the detailed information of an event in a particular log generated by a specific source.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTLogicalProcessor**](msft-mtlogicalprocessor.md)
</dt> <dd>

The Logical Processor data object. Statistic data is calculated based on current interval seconds setting.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTMemorySummary**](msft-mtmemorysummary.md)
</dt> <dd>

The memory data object. Statistic data is calculated based on current interval seconds setting.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTNetworkAdapter**](msft-mtnetworkadapter.md)
</dt> <dd>

The Network adapter data object. Statistic data is calculated based on current interval seconds setting.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTProcess**](msft-mtprocess.md)
</dt> <dd>

The process data object. Statistic data is calculated based on current interval seconds setting.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTProcessorSummary**](msft-mtprocessorsummary.md)
</dt> <dd>

The Processor data object. Statistic data is calculated based on current interval seconds setting.

</dd> <dt>

[**MSFT\_MTTaskManager**](msft-mttaskmanager.md)
</dt> <dd>

The task manager class.

</dd> </dl>

 

 




