---
description: "Learn more about: JET_THREADSTATS Structure"
title: JET_THREADSTATS Structure
TOCTitle: JET_THREADSTATS Structure
ms:assetid: 37e86e14-7719-4991-aae8-bcff1baa80df
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/Gg269227(v=EXCHG.10)
ms:contentKeyID: 32765529
ms.date: 04/11/2016
ms.topic: reference
api_name: 
topic_type: 
- apiref
- kbArticle
api_type: 
- COM
api_location: 
ROBOTS: INDEX,FOLLOW

---

# JET_THREADSTATS Structure


_**Applies to:** Windows | Windows Server_

## JET_THREADSTATS Structure

The **JET_THREADSTATS** structure contains cumulative statistics on the work performed by the database engine on the current thread. This information is returned via [JetGetThreadStats](./jetgetthreadstats-function.md).

**Windows Vista:**  The **JET_THREADSTATS** structure is introduced in Windows Vista.

```cpp
    typedef struct {
      unsigned long cbStruct;
      unsigned long cPageReferenced;
      unsigned long cPageRead;
      unsigned long cPagePreread;
      unsigned long cPageDirtied;
      unsigned long cPageRedirtied;
      unsigned long cLogRecord;
      unsigned long cbLogRecord;
    } JET_THREADSTATS;
```

### Members

**cbStruct**

The size of the returned **JET_THREADSTATS** structure, in bytes.

**Note**  The **JET_THREADSTATS** structure will expand in the future to contain more statistics. New statistics will be added to the end of the structure and can be retrieved with an increased output buffer size. The presence of additional statistics can be inferred by a larger **cbStruct** value.

**cPageReferenced**

The total number of database pages visited by the database engine on the current thread.

**cPageRead**

The total number of database pages fetched from disk by the database engine on the current thread.

**cPagePreread**

The total number of database pages prefetched from disk by the database engine on the current thread.

**cPageDirtied**

The total number of database pages, with no unwritten changes, that have been modified by the database engine on the current thread.

**cPageRedirtied**

The total number of database pages, with unwritten changes, that have been modified by the database engine on the current thread.

**cLogRecord**

The total number of transaction log records that have been generated by the database engine on the current thread.

**cbLogRecord**

The total size in bytes of transaction log records that have been generated by the database engine on the current thread.

### Requirements


| Requirement | Value |
|------------|----------|
| <p><strong>Client</strong></p> | <p>Requires Windows Vista.</p> | 
| <p><strong>Server</strong></p> | <p>Requires Windows Server 2008.</p> | 
| <p><strong>Header</strong></p> | <p>Declared in Esent.h.</p> | 



### See Also

[JetGetThreadStats](./jetgetthreadstats-function.md)
