---
title: Private Sensor Pool
description: A collection of biometric units reserved for exclusive use by a client application. Private pools support proprietary authentication methods and enable a client application to access a biometric unit by using vendor-specified control commands.
ms.assetid: 'f0ccbafd-e7a8-4389-bd05-0b062dfc4dc0'
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Private Sensor Pool

A private sensor pool is a collection of biometric units reserved for exclusive use by a client application. Private pools support proprietary authentication methods and enable a client application to access a biometric unit by using vendor-specified control commands. Biometric units in a private sensor pool:

-   Are available only to the client application that created the pool.
-   Send event notices generated by the completion of biometric operations directly to the application without regard to current window focus.
-   Use GUIDs to identify biometric templates.
-   Share a single, application selected template database.

Private sensor pools must be used if the client application:

-   Manages a collection of dedicated biometric units that use an application-specific template database. For an example, consider an employee attendance application where employees signal their arrival at work by swiping their finger on a fingerprint reader. The employees do not have Windows accounts on the computer running the application. Instead, their fingerprints are identified by GUIDs managed by the attendance application.
-   Collects biometric samples rather than simply maps samples to SIDs.
-   Places the biometric unit hardware into maintenance mode to update the firmware.
-   Sends vendor-defined control commands to the biometric unit hardware or software.
-   Attempts to configure a biometric unit with onboard storage to operate in advanced mode but the unit cannot perform the required hashing operations.
-   Runs from a Remote Desktop client session.

> [!Note]  
> Applications can create private sensor pools for fingerprint biometrics only. If an application tries to create one for anything else (e.g., Face), the request will fail.

 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Creating a Private Sensor Pool](creating-a-private-sensor-pool.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Sensor Pools](sensor-pools.md)
</dt> <dt>

[System Sensor Pool](system-sensor-pool.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 




