---
title: Remote vs. Console terminals/sessions
description: The differencs between consoles and remote sessions.
ms.tgt_platform: multiple
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/26/2021
---

# Remote vs. Console terminals/sessions

A  `console` is a terminal session that is connected to a remote host.
The point of this document is to explain the differences between console and remote sessions. As well as go into some of the implications underneath.

## What is a Terminal?

A terminal is a concept that Remote Desktop Services introduces that’s basically a group of input/output devices and configuration. There are different types of Terminals, but the two most common ones are “Remote” and “Console”. 

## What do you do with a Terminal?

A terminal’s purpose in life is to be attached to a Session. If it’s not attached to a Session, it will be attached shortly or it’s in the process of being destroyed. This document won’t cover in detail what a session is, but it’s essentially the element that holds the user’s processes, data identity and runs it’s own win32k instance under csrss.exe. 

The most known Terminal is the Console Terminal, which is always active with few exceptions. There’s only one active Console Terminal on a given machine, and all the local input/output devices are attached to the terminal. 

The other common terminal is the Remote Terminal. This terminal is generated by protocol providers that integrate with the Remote Desktop Services Interface like RDP, Citrix, VmWare, etc… The input/output devices associated with this are considered “remote”. Win32k and other programs can use WTS APIs like WTSQuerySessionInformation to be aware that the user is connected to the machine remotely. This is useful in situations where devices are redirected, and certain features need to be disabled or consider extra latency or take different paths. 

## What happens when I RDP into a machine? 


Below is a walkthrough of what normally happens when you RDP into a machine. 
 
## Remote Terminal Lifetime 

We briefly covered the lifetime of a remote terminal, but to go into a little more detail. The lifetime of a Remote Terminal is generally close to the lifetime of the connection from the RDP Client to the RDP Server. If the RDP connection gets broken due to network issues, the Remote Terminal is torn down and needs to be recreated. 

## Multiple Terminals and Sessions 

On SKUs like Windows 10 Multisession and Windows Server with the RDSH role installed, it is possible for multiple users to be logged in and have a connected terminal similar the setup below. Diagram simplified for readability. 


## WDDM Graphics adapters and terminals 

WDDM drivers can expose either render capabilities (WDDM Render Only Driver), display capabilities (WDDM Display Only Driver/WDDM Indirect Display Driver) or both render and display capabilities. The display capacities of a WDDM GPU are always associated with the console terminal, this means a local monitor exposed through full WDDM driver, WDDM Indirect Display Driver or WDDM Display Only driver will only be used to display the console terminal and hence the current console session.  In contrast the render capacities of a GPU are exposed to all terminal and sessions. 

For example full WDDM GPU with two local monitor attached, in the console session is exposed with the attached monitors but in remote session that adapter is enumerated without any monitors attached. 

In WDDM remote sessions (the default for all SKU’s in the ‘2004’ release) it is the SKU default policy (with Group policy override) that decide if WARP (CPU rasterizer) or a render GPU that is paired with the remote WDDM Indirect Display adapter to render the desktop and application for that remote session. 