desktop-src/SecAuthZ/security-descriptor-string-format.md, before:

---
description: The Security Descriptor String Format is a text format for storing or transporting information in a security descriptor.
ms.assetid: 0a226629-084c-40c5-bdd4-ad7355c807cf
title: Security Descriptor String Format
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Security Descriptor String Format

The **Security Descriptor String Format** is a text format for storing or transporting information in a security descriptor. The [**ConvertSecurityDescriptorToStringSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertsecuritydescriptortostringsecuritydescriptora) and [**ConvertStringSecurityDescriptorToSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertstringsecuritydescriptortosecuritydescriptora) functions use this format.

The format is a **null**-terminated string with tokens to indicate each of the four main components of a security descriptor: owner (O:), primary group (G:), DACL (D:), and SACL (S:).

> [!Note]  
> [*Access control entries*](/windows/desktop/SecGloss/a-gly) (ACEs) and conditional ACEs have differing formats. For ACEs, see [ACE Strings](ace-strings.md). For conditional ACEs, see [Security Descriptor Definition Language for Conditional ACEs](security-descriptor-definition-language-for-conditional-aces-.md).

 


```C++
O:owner_sid
G:group_sid
D:dacl_flags(string_ace1)(string_ace2)... (string_acen)
S:sacl_flags(string_ace1)(string_ace2)... (string_acen)
```



<dl> <dt>

<span id="owner_sid"></span><span id="OWNER_SID"></span>owner\_sid
</dt> <dd>

A [SID string](sid-strings.md) that identifies the object's owner.

</dd> <dt>

<span id="group_sid"></span><span id="GROUP_SID"></span>group\_sid
</dt> <dd>

A SID string that identifies the object's primary group.

</dd> <dt>

<span id="dacl_flags"></span><span id="DACL_FLAGS"></span>dacl\_flags
</dt> <dd>

Security descriptor control flags that apply to the DACL. For a description of these control flags, see the [**SetSecurityDescriptorControl**](/windows/win32/api/securitybaseapi/nf-securitybaseapi-setsecuritydescriptorcontrol) function. The dacl\_flags string can be a concatenation of zero or more of the following strings.



| Control               | Constant in Sddl.h       | Meaning                                       |
|-----------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| "P"                   | SDDL\_PROTECTED          | The SE\_DACL\_PROTECTED flag is set.          |
| "AR"                  | SDDL\_AUTO\_INHERIT\_REQ | The SE\_DACL\_AUTO\_INHERIT\_REQ flag is set. |
| "AI"                  | SDDL\_AUTO\_INHERITED    | The SE\_DACL\_AUTO\_INHERITED flag is set.    |
| "NO\_ACCESS\_CONTROL" | SDDL\_NULL\_ACL          | The ACL is null.                              |



 

</dd> <dt>

<span id="sacl_flags"></span><span id="SACL_FLAGS"></span>sacl\_flags
</dt> <dd>

Security descriptor control flags that apply to the SACL. The sacl\_flags string uses the same control bit strings as the dacl\_flags string.

</dd> <dt>

<span id="string_ace"></span><span id="STRING_ACE"></span>string\_ace
</dt> <dd>

A string that describes an ACE in the security descriptor's DACL or SACL. For a description of the ACE string format, see [ACE strings](ace-strings.md). Each ACE string is enclosed in parentheses (()).

</dd> </dl>

Unneeded components can be omitted from the security descriptor string. For example, if the SE\_DACL\_PRESENT flag is not set in the input security descriptor, [**ConvertSecurityDescriptorToStringSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertsecuritydescriptortostringsecuritydescriptora) does not include a D: component in the output string. You can also use the [**SECURITY\_INFORMATION**](security-information.md) bit flags to indicate the components to include in a security descriptor string.

The security descriptor string format does not support **NULL** ACLs.

To denote an empty ACL, the security descriptor string includes the D: or S: token with no additional string information.

The security descriptor string stores the [**SECURITY DESCRIPTOR CONTROL**](security-descriptor-control.md) bits in different ways. The SE\_DACL\_PRESENT or SE\_SACL\_PRESENT bits are indicated by the presence of the D: or S: token in the string. Other bits that apply to the DACL or SACL are stored in dacl\_flags and sacl\_flags. The SE\_OWNER\_DEFAULTED, SE\_GROUP\_DEFAULTED, SE\_DACL\_DEFAULTED, and SE\_SACL\_DEFAULTED bits are not stored in a security descriptor string. The SE\_SELF\_RELATIVE bit is not stored in the string, but [**ConvertStringSecurityDescriptorToSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertstringsecuritydescriptortosecuritydescriptora) always sets this bit in the output security descriptor.

The following examples show security descriptor strings and the information in the associated security descriptors.

String 1:


```C++
"O:AOG:DAD:(A;;RPWPCCDCLCSWRCWDWOGA;;;S-1-0-0)"
```



Security Descriptor 1:


```C++
    Revision:  0x00000001
    Control:   0x0004
        SE_DACL_PRESENT
    Owner: (S-1-5-32-548)
    PrimaryGroup: (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
DACL
    Revision: 0x02
    Size:     0x001c
    AceCount: 0x0001
    Ace[00]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0014
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x100e003f
                            READ_CONTROL
                            WRITE_DAC
                            WRITE_OWNER
                            GENERIC_ALL
                            Others(0x0000003f)
        Ace Sid      : (S-1-0-0)
SACL
    Not present
```



String 2:


```C++
"O:DAG:DAD:(A;;RPWPCCDCLCRCWOWDSDSW;;;SY)
(A;;RPWPCCDCLCRCWOWDSDSW;;;DA)
(OA;;CCDC;bf967aba-0de6-11d0-a285-00aa003049e2;;AO)
(OA;;CCDC;bf967a9c-0de6-11d0-a285-00aa003049e2;;AO)
(OA;;CCDC;6da8a4ff-0e52-11d0-a286-00aa003049e2;;AO)
(OA;;CCDC;bf967aa8-0de6-11d0-a285-00aa003049e2;;PO)
(A;;RPLCRC;;;AU)S:(AU;SAFA;WDWOSDWPCCDCSW;;;WD)"
```



Security Descriptor 2:


```C++
    Revision:  0x00000001
    Control:   0x0014
        SE_DACL_PRESENT
        SE_SACL_PRESENT
    Owner: (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
    PrimaryGroup: (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
DACL
    Revision: 0x04
    Size:     0x0104
    AceCount: 0x0007
    Ace[00]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0014
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x000f003f
                            DELETE
                            READ_CONTROL
                            WRITE_DAC
                            WRITE_OWNER
                            Others(0x0000003f)
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-18)
    Ace[01]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0024
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x000f003f
                            DELETE
                            READ_CONTROL
                            WRITE_DAC
                            WRITE_OWNER
                            Others(0x0000003f)
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
    Ace[02]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_USER
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-548)
    Ace[03]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_GROUP
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-548)
    Ace[04]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_LOCALGROUP
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-548)
    Ace[05]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_PRINT_QUEUE
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-550)
    Ace[06]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0014
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00020014
                            READ_CONTROL
                            Others(0x00000014)
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-11)
    SACL
        Revision: 0x02
        Size:     0x001c
        AceCount: 0x0001
        Ace[00]
            AceType:       0x02 (SYSTEM_AUDIT_ACE_TYPE)
            AceSize:       0x0014
            InheritFlags:  0xc0
                SUCCESSFUL_ACCESS_ACE_FLAG
                FAILED_ACCESS_ACE_FLAG
            Access Mask:    0x000d002b
                                DELETE
                                WRITE_DAC
                                WRITE_OWNER
                                Others(0x0000002b)
            Ace Sid:       (S-1-1-0)
```



## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[ACE Strings](ace-strings.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Security Descriptor Definition Language for Conditional ACEs](security-descriptor-definition-language-for-conditional-aces-.md)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

Update SDDL tables (long overdue)
There have been many additions to SDDL that went undocumented.
Fill in all the changes since Windows Vista.

Also, many existing SDDL entries were not marked with the
supported OS versions (if not supported on Windows Server 2003,
which appears to be our baseline). Added markings.

It seems that our policy for marking entries is to list the
versions of Windows they are *not* supported on, which makes
for some very awkward descriptions. (I mean, check out
`SDDL_CRITICAL`!) For "RM" I didn't even try,
because every time we release a new OS, we would have to update
the entry for "RM" and that is not tenable. So "RM" breaks
the rule and instead lists the OS versions that support it (exactly one:
Windows Vista).

It was hard to find descriptions for some of the new entries.
I tried to reuse them from [Well-known SIDs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/secauthz/well-known-sids).
Failing that, I used the comment in sddl.h.

desktop-src/SecAuthZ/security-descriptor-string-format.md, after:

---
description: The Security Descriptor String Format is a text format for storing or transporting information in a security descriptor.
ms.assetid: 0a226629-084c-40c5-bdd4-ad7355c807cf
title: Security Descriptor String Format
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Security Descriptor String Format

The **Security Descriptor String Format** is a text format for storing or transporting information in a security descriptor. The [**ConvertSecurityDescriptorToStringSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertsecuritydescriptortostringsecuritydescriptora) and [**ConvertStringSecurityDescriptorToSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertstringsecuritydescriptortosecuritydescriptora) functions use this format.

The format is a **null**-terminated string with tokens to indicate each of the four main components of a security descriptor: owner (O:), primary group (G:), DACL (D:), and SACL (S:).

> [!Note]  
> [*Access control entries*](/windows/desktop/SecGloss/a-gly) (ACEs) and conditional ACEs have differing formats. For ACEs, see [ACE Strings](ace-strings.md). For conditional ACEs, see [Security Descriptor Definition Language for Conditional ACEs](security-descriptor-definition-language-for-conditional-aces-.md).

 


```C++
O:owner_sid
G:group_sid
D:dacl_flags(string_ace1)(string_ace2)... (string_acen)
S:sacl_flags(string_ace1)(string_ace2)... (string_acen)
```



<dl> <dt>

<span id="owner_sid"></span><span id="OWNER_SID"></span>owner\_sid
</dt> <dd>

A [SID string](sid-strings.md) that identifies the object's owner.

</dd> <dt>

<span id="group_sid"></span><span id="GROUP_SID"></span>group\_sid
</dt> <dd>

A SID string that identifies the object's primary group.

</dd> <dt>

<span id="dacl_flags"></span><span id="DACL_FLAGS"></span>dacl\_flags
</dt> <dd>

Security descriptor control flags that apply to the DACL. For a description of these control flags, see the [**SetSecurityDescriptorControl**](/windows/win32/api/securitybaseapi/nf-securitybaseapi-setsecuritydescriptorcontrol) function. The dacl\_flags string can be a concatenation of zero or more of the following strings.



| Control               | Constant in Sddl.h       | Meaning                                       |
|-----------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| "P"                   | SDDL\_PROTECTED          | The SE\_DACL\_PROTECTED flag is set.          |
| "AR"                  | SDDL\_AUTO\_INHERIT\_REQ | The SE\_DACL\_AUTO\_INHERIT\_REQ flag is set. |
| "AI"                  | SDDL\_AUTO\_INHERITED    | The SE\_DACL\_AUTO\_INHERITED flag is set.    |
| "NO\_ACCESS\_CONTROL" | SDDL\_NULL\_ACL          | The ACL is null. **Windows Server 2008, Windows Vista and Windows Server 2003:** Not available. |



 

</dd> <dt>

<span id="sacl_flags"></span><span id="SACL_FLAGS"></span>sacl\_flags
</dt> <dd>

Security descriptor control flags that apply to the SACL. The sacl\_flags string uses the same control bit strings as the dacl\_flags string.

</dd> <dt>

<span id="string_ace"></span><span id="STRING_ACE"></span>string\_ace
</dt> <dd>

A string that describes an ACE in the security descriptor's DACL or SACL. For a description of the ACE string format, see [ACE strings](ace-strings.md). Each ACE string is enclosed in parentheses (()).

</dd> </dl>

Unneeded components can be omitted from the security descriptor string. For example, if the SE\_DACL\_PRESENT flag is not set in the input security descriptor, [**ConvertSecurityDescriptorToStringSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertsecuritydescriptortostringsecuritydescriptora) does not include a D: component in the output string. You can also use the [**SECURITY\_INFORMATION**](security-information.md) bit flags to indicate the components to include in a security descriptor string.

The security descriptor string format does not support **NULL** ACLs.

To denote an empty ACL, the security descriptor string includes the D: or S: token with no additional string information.

The security descriptor string stores the [**SECURITY DESCRIPTOR CONTROL**](security-descriptor-control.md) bits in different ways. The SE\_DACL\_PRESENT or SE\_SACL\_PRESENT bits are indicated by the presence of the D: or S: token in the string. Other bits that apply to the DACL or SACL are stored in dacl\_flags and sacl\_flags. The SE\_OWNER\_DEFAULTED, SE\_GROUP\_DEFAULTED, SE\_DACL\_DEFAULTED, and SE\_SACL\_DEFAULTED bits are not stored in a security descriptor string. The SE\_SELF\_RELATIVE bit is not stored in the string, but [**ConvertStringSecurityDescriptorToSecurityDescriptor**](/windows/desktop/api/Sddl/nf-sddl-convertstringsecuritydescriptortosecuritydescriptora) always sets this bit in the output security descriptor.

The following examples show security descriptor strings and the information in the associated security descriptors.

String 1:


```C++
"O:AOG:DAD:(A;;RPWPCCDCLCSWRCWDWOGA;;;S-1-0-0)"
```



Security Descriptor 1:


```C++
    Revision:  0x00000001
    Control:   0x0004
        SE_DACL_PRESENT
    Owner: (S-1-5-32-548)
    PrimaryGroup: (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
DACL
    Revision: 0x02
    Size:     0x001c
    AceCount: 0x0001
    Ace[00]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0014
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x100e003f
                            READ_CONTROL
                            WRITE_DAC
                            WRITE_OWNER
                            GENERIC_ALL
                            Others(0x0000003f)
        Ace Sid      : (S-1-0-0)
SACL
    Not present
```



String 2:


```C++
"O:DAG:DAD:(A;;RPWPCCDCLCRCWOWDSDSW;;;SY)
(A;;RPWPCCDCLCRCWOWDSDSW;;;DA)
(OA;;CCDC;bf967aba-0de6-11d0-a285-00aa003049e2;;AO)
(OA;;CCDC;bf967a9c-0de6-11d0-a285-00aa003049e2;;AO)
(OA;;CCDC;6da8a4ff-0e52-11d0-a286-00aa003049e2;;AO)
(OA;;CCDC;bf967aa8-0de6-11d0-a285-00aa003049e2;;PO)
(A;;RPLCRC;;;AU)S:(AU;SAFA;WDWOSDWPCCDCSW;;;WD)"
```



Security Descriptor 2:


```C++
    Revision:  0x00000001
    Control:   0x0014
        SE_DACL_PRESENT
        SE_SACL_PRESENT
    Owner: (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
    PrimaryGroup: (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
DACL
    Revision: 0x04
    Size:     0x0104
    AceCount: 0x0007
    Ace[00]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0014
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x000f003f
                            DELETE
                            READ_CONTROL
                            WRITE_DAC
                            WRITE_OWNER
                            Others(0x0000003f)
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-18)
    Ace[01]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0024
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x000f003f
                            DELETE
                            READ_CONTROL
                            WRITE_DAC
                            WRITE_OWNER
                            Others(0x0000003f)
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-21-397955417-626881126-188441444-512)
    Ace[02]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_USER
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-548)
    Ace[03]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_GROUP
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-548)
    Ace[04]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_LOCALGROUP
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-548)
    Ace[05]
        AceType:       0x05 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_OBJECT_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x002c
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00000003
                            Others(0x00000003)
        Flags:         0x00000001, ACE_OBJECT_TYPE_PRESENT
        ObjectType:    GUID_C_PRINT_QUEUE
        InhObjectType: GUID ptr is NULL
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-32-550)
    Ace[06]
        AceType:       0x00 (ACCESS_ALLOWED_ACE_TYPE)
        AceSize:       0x0014
        InheritFlags:  0x00
        Access Mask:   0x00020014
                            READ_CONTROL
                            Others(0x00000014)
        Ace Sid:       (S-1-5-11)
    SACL
        Revision: 0x02
        Size:     0x001c
        AceCount: 0x0001
        Ace[00]
            AceType:       0x02 (SYSTEM_AUDIT_ACE_TYPE)
            AceSize:       0x0014
            InheritFlags:  0xc0
                SUCCESSFUL_ACCESS_ACE_FLAG
                FAILED_ACCESS_ACE_FLAG
            Access Mask:    0x000d002b
                                DELETE
                                WRITE_DAC
                                WRITE_OWNER
                                Others(0x0000002b)
            Ace Sid:       (S-1-1-0)
```



## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[ACE Strings](ace-strings.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Security Descriptor Definition Language for Conditional ACEs](security-descriptor-definition-language-for-conditional-aces-.md)
</dt> </dl>
