---
Description: Error Messages and Error Pages
ms.assetid: b6846bf5-96f8-48d2-b880-a336dd17d200
title: Error Messages and Error Pages
ms.technology: desktop
ms.prod: windows
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Error Messages and Error Pages

> [!Note]  
> Indexing Service is no longer supported as of Windows XP and is unavailable for use as of Windows 8. Instead, use [Windows Search](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/6da601c6-3742-40ad-99f2-8817f7f642b3) for client side search and [Microsoft Search Server Express]( http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=258445) for server side search.

 

Indexing Service errors fall into several classes: query syntax errors, .idq syntax errors, .htx syntax errors, out-of-resource errors, and other system errors. HTML pages and the Microsoft Windows Event Log report Indexing Service errors. The only errors a user is likely to see are query-syntax errors, and even these can be minimized by using HTML forms.

This section contains:

-   [Hit-Highlighting Errors](hit-highlighting-errors.md): Explains errors due to incorrect hit-highlighting syntax.
-   [HTML Error Pages](html-error-pages.md): Explains the three classes of errors that generate an HTML error page.
-   [.Htx File Errors](htx-file-errors.md): Explains messages for .htx files for .idq processing only.
-   [.Idq File Errors](idq-file-errors.md): Describes the messages that can be returned because of errors in .idq files.
-   [Event Log Messages](event-log-messages.md): Explains the meaning of messages recorded in the Windows event log.
-   [Query Syntax Errors](query-syntax-errors.md): Lists and explains the errors that can be returned when executing a query through any method.
-   [IXSSO Errors](ixsso-errors.md): Lists error messages that are generated by Active Server Pages (ASP).

 

 



