desktop-src/printdocs/printticket-public-keywords.md, before:

---
description: This topic is not current. For the most current information, see the Print Schema Specification.
ms.assetid: 116f59e9-da65-430d-b5de-e7cd9686bd19
title: PrintTicket Public Keywords
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# PrintTicket Public Keywords

This topic is not current. For the most current information, see the [Print Schema Specification](https://download.microsoft.com/download/D/E/C/DECA6E6B-3E81-48E7-B7EF-6D92A547D03C/print-schema-spec-2-0.zip).

The following section specifies both PrintTicket specific property descriptions and parameter initializers which may be applicable to a PrintTicket.

## PrintTicket Specific Property Descriptions Usage

PrintTicket specific property descriptors represent Print Schema Public Keywords which MAY appear in a PrintTicket. They contain specific information that an application or user may wish to specify in a PrintTicket.

## Parameter Initializers Usage

Parameter Initializers take the form of ParameterInit element types in a PrintTicket. ParameterInit element types contain the value of the parameter and are initialized within a PrintTicket. For more information, please refer to [Parameter Constructs](parameter-constructs.md) section.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Print Schema Specification](https://download.microsoft.com/download/D/E/C/DECA6E6B-3E81-48E7-B7EF-6D92A547D03C/print-schema-spec-2-0.zip)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

Message fixes: duplicate-descriptions [BULK UPDATE] (#1070)
* Validation suggestions.

* Additional fixes.

desktop-src/printdocs/printticket-public-keywords.md, after:

---
description: These articles specify both PrintTicket specific property descriptions and parameter initializers which may be applicable to a PrintTicket.
ms.assetid: 116f59e9-da65-430d-b5de-e7cd9686bd19
title: PrintTicket Public Keywords
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# PrintTicket Public Keywords

This topic is not current. For the most current information, see the [Print Schema Specification](https://download.microsoft.com/download/D/E/C/DECA6E6B-3E81-48E7-B7EF-6D92A547D03C/print-schema-spec-2-0.zip).

The following section specifies both PrintTicket specific property descriptions and parameter initializers which may be applicable to a PrintTicket.

## PrintTicket Specific Property Descriptions Usage

PrintTicket specific property descriptors represent Print Schema Public Keywords which MAY appear in a PrintTicket. They contain specific information that an application or user may wish to specify in a PrintTicket.

## Parameter Initializers Usage

Parameter Initializers take the form of ParameterInit element types in a PrintTicket. ParameterInit element types contain the value of the parameter and are initialized within a PrintTicket. For more information, please refer to [Parameter Constructs](parameter-constructs.md) section.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Print Schema Specification](https://download.microsoft.com/download/D/E/C/DECA6E6B-3E81-48E7-B7EF-6D92A547D03C/print-schema-spec-2-0.zip)
</dt> </dl>
