---
title: About Allocating Streaming Resources
description: About Allocating Streaming Resources
ms.assetid: b09633c4-58f7-4e3e-bb4d-007845baaccf
keywords:
- Windows Media Player plug-ins,audio DSP
- plug-ins,audio DSP
- digital signal processing plug-ins,audio streaming resources
- DSP plug-ins,audio streaming resources
- audio DSP plug-ins,streaming resources
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 4/26/2023
ms.custom: UpdateFrequency5
---

# About Allocating Streaming Resources

\[The feature associated with this page, [Windows Media Player SDK](/windows/win32/wmp/windows-media-player-sdk), is a legacy feature. It has been superseded by [MediaPlayer](/uwp/api/Windows.Media.Playback.MediaPlayer). **MediaPlayer** has been optimized for Windows 10 and Windows 11. Microsoft strongly recommends that new code use **MediaPlayer** instead of **Windows Media Player SDK**, when possible. Microsoft suggests that existing code that uses the legacy APIs be rewritten to use the new APIs if possible.\]

The sample DSP plug-in generated by the Windows Media Player Plug-in Wizard does not require any additional streaming buffers. However, you might want to allocate memory resources for your DSP plug-in. For example, a plug-in that produces an echo effect would require a secondary buffer to create the necessary time delay.

The **IMediaObject** interface contains two methods to handle this situation. Windows Media Player calls **IMediaObject::AllocateStreamingResources** to give you an opportunity to create any buffers you require. Windows Media Player later calls **IMediaObject::FreeStreamingResources** to allow you to free any memory you allocated previously. The sample DSP plug-in implementation also calls **FreeStreamingResources** from *CProjectName*::**FinalRelease** to ensure that all resources are freed before the plug-in object is destroyed.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[**Implementing an Audio DSP Plug-in**](implementing-an-audio-dsp-plug-in.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 




