---
title: Video Format Negotiation in the Sample Video DSP Plug-in
description: Video Format Negotiation in the Sample Video DSP Plug-in
ms.assetid: 3e92ce10-2b9b-4689-a181-f56c33472fea
keywords:
- Windows Media Player plug-ins,video DSP
- plug-ins,video DSP
- digital signal processing plug-ins,video format negotiation
- DSP plug-ins,video format negotiation
- video DSP plug-ins,format negotiation
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 4/26/2023
ms.custom: UpdateFrequency5
---

# Video Format Negotiation in the Sample Video DSP Plug-in

\[The feature associated with this page, [Windows Media Player SDK](/windows/win32/wmp/windows-media-player-sdk), is a legacy feature. It has been superseded by [MediaPlayer](/uwp/api/Windows.Media.Playback.MediaPlayer). **MediaPlayer** has been optimized for Windows 10 and Windows 11. Microsoft strongly recommends that new code use **MediaPlayer** instead of **Windows Media Player SDK**, when possible. Microsoft suggests that existing code that uses the legacy APIs be rewritten to use the new APIs if possible.\]

Before Windows Media Player inserts a video DSP plug-in into the signal chain, the Player must determine whether the plug-in can process the video being played. The process by which the plug-in and the Player communicate about supported video formats is called format negotiation.

## Providing the Supported Input and Output Types

If the DSP plug-in is acting as a DirectX Media Object (DMO), the Player queries the plug-in about its supported formats by making a sequence of calls to **IMediaObject::GetInputType** and **IMediaObject::GetOutputType**.

If the DSP plug-in is acting as a Media Foundation Transform (MFT), the Player queries the plug-in about its supported formats by making a sequence of calls to **IMFTransform::GetInputAvailableType** and **IMFTransform::GetOutputAvailableType**.

The sample video plug-in generated by the Windows Media Player Plug-in Wizard stores the list of supported video formats as an array of GUIDs. The following code is from the main .cpp file:


```C++
static const GUID*    k_guidValidSubtypes[] = {
    &MEDIASUBTYPE_NV12,
    &MEDIASUBTYPE_YV12,
    &MEDIASUBTYPE_YUY2,
    &MEDIASUBTYPE_UYVY,
    &MEDIASUBTYPE_RGB32,
    &MEDIASUBTYPE_RGB24,
    &MEDIASUBTYPE RGB555,
    &MEDIASUBTYPE RGB565
};

```



The Player can call **IMediaObject::GetInputType** and **IMediaObject::GetOutputType** in any order, so the plug-in code must anticipate this. Similary, the Player can call **IMFTransform::GetInputAvailableType** and **IMFTransform::GetOutputAvailableType** in any order. The sample implementations of **GetOutputType** and **GetOutputAvailableType** test whether the input type has already been defined. If it has, the plug-in responds that it supports only that type. Otherwise, the plug-in returns the type that corresponds to the supplied index, as the following code demonstrates:


```C++
// If input type has been defined, then use that as output type.
if (GUID_NULL != m_mtInput.majortype)
{
    hr = ::MoCopyMediaType( pmt, &m_mtInput );
}
else // Otherwise use default for this plug-in.
{
    ::ZeroMemory( pmt, sizeof( DMO_MEDIA_TYPE ) );
    pmt->majortype = MEDIATYPE_Video;
    pmt->subtype = *k_guidValidSubtypes[dwTypeIndex];     
}

```



## Setting the Input and Output Types

If the DSP plug-in is acting as a DMO, Windows Media Player sets the media type by calling **IMediaObject::SetInputType** and **IMediaObject::SetOutputType**, passing to each function a pointer to a **DMO\_MEDIA\_TYPE** structure that represents the requested media type.

If the DSP plug-in is acting as an MFT, Windows Media Player sets the media type by calling **IMFTransform::SetInputType** and **IMFTransform::SetOutputType**, passing to each function a pointer to an **IMFMediaType** interface that represents the requested media type.

There is no guarantee that the Player will call format negotiation methods in any particular order, so plug-in code must handle any case. For instance, if the Player calls **SetOutputType** before calling **SetInputType**, it is a valid course of action for the plug-in to reject the proposed output media type. The following code from the sample implementation of **IMediaObject::SetOutputType** demonstrates this:


```C++
if( GUID_NULL != m_mtInput.majortype )
{
    // Validate that the output media type matches our requirements 
    // and matches our input type (if set).
    hr = ValidateMediaType(pmt, &m_mtInput);
}
else
{
    hr = DMO_E_TYPE_NOT_ACCEPTED;
}

```



The sample plug-in implementations of **SetInputType** and **SetOutputType** call the custom function named **ValidateMediaType**. This plug-in function performs a series of tests on the proposed media type designed to ensure that the media type is well-formed and supported by the plug-in. **ValidateMediaType** performs the following tests:

-   Verifies that the **majortype** and **formattype** members contain the correct values.
-   Verifies that the **subtype** member matches one of the supported formats.
-   Verifies that the information in the **BITMAPINFOHEADER** and **VIDEOINFOHEADER** or **VIDEOINFOHEADER2** structures contain valid values.
-   Tests whether the input and output media types match because the plug-in does not convert formats from input to output.

If the proposed media type passes the validation tests, it is stored in a member variable: **m\_mtInput** for the input media type, **m\_mtOutput** for the output media type.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[**Implementing a Video DSP Plug-in**](implementing-a-video-dsp-plug-in.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 




