desktop-src/SecCrypto/signtool.md, before:

---
title: SignTool
description: SignTool is a command-line tool that digitally signs files, verifies the signatures in files, and timestamps files.
ms.assetid: aa59cb35-5fba-4ce8-97ea-fc767c83f88e
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/12/2020
---

# SignTool

SignTool is a command-line tool that digitally signs files, verifies the signatures in files, and timestamps files. For information about why signing files is important, see [Introduction to Code Signing](cryptography-tools.md). The tool is installed in the \\Bin folder of the Microsoft Windows Software Development Kit (SDK) installation path (Example: C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\10\bin\10.0.19041.0\x64\signtool.exe).

SignTool is available as part of the Windows SDK, which you can download from <https://developer.microsoft.com/windows/downloads/windows-10-sdk/>.

> [!Note]  
> The Windows 10 SDK, Windows 10 HLK, Windows 10 WDK and Windows 10 ADK **builds 20236 and above** will now require specifying the digest algorithm. The SignTool sign command requires the /fd `file digest algorithm` and the /td `timestamp digest algorithm` option to be specified during signing and timestamping, respectively. A warning (error code 0, initially) will be thrown if /fd is not specified during signing and if /td is not specified during timestamping. In later versions of SignTool, the warning will become an error. SHA256 is recommended and considered to be more secure than SHA1 by the industry.  


## Syntax  
  
```console  
signtool [command] [options] [file_name | ...]  
```  

## Parameters  
  
|Argument|Description|  
|----|----|  
|`command`|One of four commands (`catdb`, `sign`, `Timestamp`, or `Verify`) that specifies an operation to perform on a file. For a description of each command, see the next table.|  
|`options`|An option that modifies a command. In addition to the global `/q` and `/v` options, each command supports a unique set of options.|  
|`file_name`|The path to a file to sign.| 


The following commands are supported by SignTool.

|Command|Description|  
|----|----|  
|`Catdb`|Adds a catalog file to, or removes it from, a catalog database. Catalog databases are used for automatic lookup of catalog files and are identified by GUID. For a list of the options supported by the `catdb` command, see [catdb Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#catdb-command-options).|  
|`Sign`|Digitally signs files. Digital signatures protect files from tampering, and enable users to verify the signer based on a signing certificate. For a list of the options supported by the `sign` command, see [sign Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#sign-command-options).|  
|`Timestamp`|Time-stamps files. For a list of the options supported by the `TimeStamp` command, see [TimeStamp Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#timestamp-command-options).|  
|`Verify`|Verifies the digital signature of files by determining whether the signing certificate was issued by a trusted authority, whether the signing certificate has been revoked, and, optionally, whether the signing certificate is valid for a specific policy. For a list of the options supported by the `Verify` command, see [Verify Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#verify-command-options).|

 The following options apply to all Sign Tool commands.  
  
|Global option|Description|  
|----|----|  
|**/q**|Displays no output if the command runs successfully, and displays minimal output if the command fails.|  
|**/v**|Displays verbose output regardless of whether the command runs successfully or fails, and displays warning messages.|  
|**/debug**|Displays debugging information.|  

 
## Catdb command options  

 The following table lists the options that can be used with the `Catdb` command.

| Catdb option | Description |
|----|----| 
| **/d** | Specifies that the default catalog database be updated. If neither the **/d** nor **/g** option is used, SignTool updates the system component and driver database. |
| **/g** *GUID* | Specifies that the catalog database identified by the GUID be updated.|
| **/r** | Removes the specified catalog from the catalog database. If this option is not specified, SignTool will add the specified catalog to the catalog database.|
| **/u** | Specifies that a unique name be automatically generated for the added catalog files. If necessary, the catalog files are renamed to prevent name conflicts with existing catalog files. If this option is not specified, SignTool overwrites any existing catalog that has the same name as the catalog being added.|

> [!Note]  
> Catalog databases are used for automatic lookup of catalog files.


## Sign command options  

 The following table lists the options that can be used with the `sign` command.  
  
|Sign command option|Description|  
|----|----| 
|`/a`|Automatically selects the best signing certificate. Sign Tool will find all valid certificates that satisfy all specified conditions and select the one that is valid for the longest time. If this option is not present, Sign Tool expects to find only one valid signing certificate.|  
|`/ac`  *file*|Adds an additional certificate from *file* to the signature block.|  
|`/as`|Appends this signature. If no primary signature is present, this signature is made the primary signature instead.|  
|`/c`  *CertTemplateName*|Specifies the Certificate Template Name (a Microsoft extension) for the signing certificate.|  
|`/csp`  *CSPName*|Specifies the cryptographic service provider (CSP) that contains the private key container.|  
|`/d`  *Desc*|Specifies a description of the signed content.|  
|`/dg`  *Path*|Generates the digest to be signed and the unsigned PKCS7 files. The output digest and PKCS7 files will be: *Path\FileName.dig* and *Path\FileName.p7u*. To output an additional XML file, see <strong>/dxml</strong>.|  
|`/di`  *Path*|Creates the signature by ingesting the signed digest to the unsigned PKCS7 file. The input signed digest and unsigned PKCS7 files should be: *Path\FileName.dig.signed* and *Path\FileName.p7u*.|  
|`/dlib`  *DLL*|Specifies the DLL implementing the <code>AuthenticodeDigestSign</code> function to sign the digest with. This option is equivalent to using <strong>SignTool</strong> separately with the <strong>/dg</strong>, <strong>/ds</strong>, and <strong>/di</strong> switches, except this option invokes all three as one atomic operation.|  
|`/dmdf`  *Filename*|When used with the <strong>/dg</strong> option, passes the file’s contents to the <code>AuthenticodeDigestSign</code> function without modification.|  
|`/ds`  |Signs the digest only. The input file should be the digest generated by the <strong>/dg</strong> option. The output file will be: *File.signed*.|  
|`/du`  *URL*|Specifies a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the expanded description of the signed content.|  
|`/dxml`  |When used with the <strong>/dg</strong> option, produces an XML file. The output file will be: *Path\FileName.dig.xml*.|  
|`/f`  *SignCertFile*|Specifies the signing certificate in a file. If the file is in Personal Information Exchange (PFX) format and protected by a password, use the `/p` option to specify the password. If the file does not contain private keys, use the `/csp` and `/kc` options to specify the CSP and private key container name.|  
|`/fd` *alg*|Specifies the file digest algorithm to use for creating file signatures. </br> **Note:** A warning is generated if <strong>/fd</strong> switch is not provided while signing. The default alg is SHA1 but SHA256 is recommended.|
|`/fd`  *certHash*|Specifying the string certHash will default to the algorithm used on the signing certificate. </br> **Note:** Only available in Windows 10 kit builds 20236 and greater.|  
|`/i`  *IssuerName*|Specifies the name of the issuer of the signing certificate. This value can be a substring of the entire issuer name.|  
|`/kc`  *PrivKeyContainerName*|Specifies the private key container name.|  
|`/n`  *SubjectName*|Specifies the name of the subject of the signing certificate. This value can be a substring of the entire subject name.|  
|`/nph`|If supported, suppresses page hashes for executable files. The default is determined by the SIGNTOOL_PAGE_HASHES environment variable and by the wintrust.dll version. This option is ignored for non-PE files.|  
|`/p`  *Password*|Specifies the password to use when opening a PFX file. (Use the `/f` option to specify a PFX file.)|  
|`/p7` *Path*|Specifies that a Public Key Cryptography Standards (PKCS) #7 file is produced for each specified content file. PKCS #7 files are named *path*\\*filename*.p7.|  
|`/p7ce` *Value*|Specifies options for the signed PKCS #7 content. Set *Value* to "Embedded" to embed the signed content in the PKCS #7 file, or to "DetachedSignedData" to produce the signed data portion of a detached PKCS #7 file. If the `/p7ce` option is not used, the signed content is embedded by default.|  
|`/p7co` *\<OID>*|Specifies the object identifier (OID) that identifies the signed PKCS #7 content.|  
|`/ph`|If supported, generates page hashes for executable files.|  
|`/r`  *RootSubjectName*|Specifies the name of the subject of the root certificate that the signing certificate must chain to. This value may be a substring of the entire subject name of the root certificate.|  
|`/s`  *StoreName*|Specifies the store to open when searching for the certificate. If this option is not specified, the `My` store is opened.|  
|`/sha1`  *Hash*|Specifies the SHA1 hash of the signing certificate. The SHA1 hash is commonly specified when multiple certificates satisfy the criteria specified by the remaining switches.|  
|`/sm`|Specifies that a machine store, instead of a user store, is used.|  
|`/t`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the time stamp server. If this option (or `/tr`) is not present, the signed file will not be time stamped. A warning is generated if time stamping fails. This option cannot be used with the `/tr` option.|  
|`/td`  *alg*|Used with the `/tr` option to request a digest algorithm used by the RFC 3161 time stamp server. </br> **Note:** A warning is generated if <strong>/td</strong> switch is not provided while timestamping. The default alg is SHA1 but SHA256 is recommended. <br/> The <strong>/td</strong> switch must be declared after the <strong>/tr</strong> switch, not before. If the <strong>/td</strong> switch is declared before the <strong>/tr</strong> switch, the timestamp that is returned is from an SHA1 algorithm instead of the intended SHA256 algorithm. |
|`/tr`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the RFC 3161 time stamp server. If this option (or `/t`) is not present, the signed file will not be time stamped. A warning is generated if time stamping fails. This option cannot be used with the `/t` option.|  
|`/u`  *Usage*|Specifies the enhanced key usage (EKU) that must be present in the signing certificate. The usage value can be specified by OID or string. The default usage is "Code Signing" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.3).|  
|`/uw`|Specifies usage of "Windows System Component Verification" (1.3.6.1.4.1.311.10.3.6).|  
  
 For usage examples, see [Using SignTool to Sign a File](using-signtool-to-sign-a-file.md).  
  

## TimeStamp command options  

 The following table lists the options that can be used with the `TimeStamp` command.  
  
|TimeStamp option|Description|  
|----|----|  
|`/p7`|Time stamps PKCS #7 files.|  
|`/t`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the time stamp server. The file being time stamped must have previously been signed. Either the `/t` or the `/tr` option is required.|  
|`/td`  *alg*|Used with the `/tr` option to request a digest algorithm used by the RFC 3161 time stamp server. </br> **Note:** A warning is generated if <strong>/td</strong> switch is not provided while timestamping. The default alg is SHA1 but SHA256 is recommended. <br/> The <strong>/td</strong> switch must be declared after the <strong>/tr</strong> switch, not before. If the <strong>/td</strong> switch is declared before the <strong>/tr</strong> switch, the timestamp that is returned is from an SHA1 algorithm instead of the intended SHA256 algorithm. |
|`/tp` *index*|Time stamps the signature at *index*.|  
|`/tr`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the RFC 3161 time stamp server. The file being time stamped must have previously been signed. Either the `/tr` or the `/t` option is required.|  


## Verify command options  

|Verify option|Description|
|----|----|
| **/a** | Specifies that all methods can be used to verify the file. First, the catalog databases are searched to determine whether the file is signed in a catalog. If the file is not signed in any catalog, SignTool attempts to verify the file's embedded signature. This option is recommended when verifying files that may or may not be signed in a catalog. Examples of files that may or may not be signed include Windows files or drivers. |
| **/ad** | Finds the catalog by using the default catalog database. |
| **/all** | Verifies all signatures in a file with multiple signatures. |
| **/as** | Finds the catalog by using the system component (driver) catalog database. |
| **/ag** *CatDBGUID* | Finds the catalog in the catalog database identified by the **GUID**. |
| **/c** *CatFile* | Specifies the catalog file by name. |
| **/d** | Print the description and description URL.<br/> **Windows Vista and earlier:** This flag is not supported.<br/> |
| **/ds** *Index* | Verifies the signature at a certain position. |
| **/hash**{**SHA1**\|**SHA256**} | Specifies an optional hash algorithm to use when searching for a file in a catalog. |
| **/kp** | Performs the verification by using the x64 kernel-mode driver signing policy. |
| **/ms** | Uses multiple verification semantics. This is the default behavior of a [**WinVerifyTrust**](/windows/desktop/api/Wintrust/nf-wintrust-winverifytrust) call. |
| **/o** *Version* | Verifies the file by operating system version. The version parameter is of the form:<br/> *PlatformID***:***VerMajor***.***VerMinor***.***BuildNumber*<br/> The use of the */o* switch is recommended. If */o* is not specified SignTool may return unexpected results. For example, if you do not include the */o* switch, then system catalogs that validate correctly on an older OS may not validate correctly on a newer OS. |
| **/p7** | Verify PKCS \#7 files. No existing policies are used for PKCS \#7 validation. The signature is checked and a chain is built for the signing certificate. |
| **/pa** | Specifies that the Default Authentication Verification Policy is used. If the **/pa** option is not specified, SignTool uses the Windows Driver Verification Policy. This option cannot be used with the **catdb** options. |
| **/pg** *PolicyGUID* | Specifies a verification policy by **GUID**. The **GUID** corresponds to the ActionID of the verification policy. This option cannot be used with the **catdb** options. |
| **/ph** | Print and verify page hash values.<br/> **Windows Vista and earlier:** This flag is not supported.<br/>  |
| **/r** *RootSubjectName* | Specifies the name of the subject of the root certificate that the signing certificate must chain to. This value can be a substring of the entire subject name of the root certificate. |
| **/tw** | Specifies that a warning is generated if the signature is not time stamped.|


The SignTool **verify** command determines whether the signing certificate was issued by a trusted authority, whether the signing certificate has been revoked, and, optionally, whether the signing certificate is valid for a specific policy.  

The SignTool **verify** command will output the **embedded** signature status unless an option is specified to search a catalog (/a, /ad, /as, /ag, /c).


## Return value  

 Sign Tool returns one of the following exit codes when it terminates.  
  
|Exit code|Description|  
|----|----| 
|0|Execution was successful.|  
|1|Execution has failed.|  
|2|Execution has completed with warnings.|


## Examples  

 The following command adds the catalog file MyCatalogFileName.cat to the system component and driver database. The `/u` option generates a unique name if necessary to prevent replacing an existing catalog file named `MyCatalogFileName.cat`.  
  
```console  
signtool catdb /v /u MyCatalogFileName.cat  
```  
  
 The following command signs a file automatically by using the best certificate.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /a /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command digitally signs a file by using a certificate stored in a password-protected PFX file.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /f MyCert.pfx /p MyPassword /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command digitally signs and time-stamps a file. The certificate used to sign the file is stored in a PFX file.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /f MyCert.pfx /t http://timestamp.digicert.com /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command signs a file by using a certificate located in the `My` store that has a subject name of `My Company Certificate`.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /n "My Company Certificate" /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command signs an ActiveX control and provides information that is displayed by Internet Explorer when the user is prompted to install the control.  
  
```console  
Signtool sign /f MyCert.pfx /d: "MyControl" /du http://www.example.com/MyControl/info.html /fd SHA256 MyControl.exe 
```  
  
 The following command time-stamps a file that has already been digitally signed.  
  
```console  
signtool timestamp /t http://timestamp.digicert.com MyFile.exe
```  

The following command time-stamps a file using an RFC 3161 timestamp server.  
  
```console  
signtool timestamp /tr http://timestamp.digicert.com /td SHA256 MyFile.exe
```  
  
 The following command verifies that a file has been signed.  
  
```console  
signtool verify MyFile.exe  
```  
  
 The following command verifies a system file that may be signed in a catalog.  
  
```console  
signtool verify /a SystemFile.dll  
```  
  
 The following command verifies a system file that is signed in a catalog named `MyCatalog.cat`.  
  
```console  
signtool verify /c MyCatalog.cat SystemFile.dll  
```

Commit message:

Task 36552572: Edit signtool docs /fd /td info
Changes
Top Note: "A warning (error code 0, initially) will be thrown if /fd is not specified during signing and if /td is not specified during timestamping. In later versions of SignTool, the warning will become an error. " --> An error (error code 1) will be thrown if /fd is not specified during signing and if /td is not specified during timestamping.
All table rows where /td specified the note in the row needs to be updated to "An error is generated if /td is not provided while timestamping." (there is no default anymore <- does not need to go in doc"
All table rows where /fd is specified the note in the row needs to be updated to "An error  is generated if the/fd switch is not provided while signing."

desktop-src/SecCrypto/signtool.md, after:

---
title: SignTool
description: SignTool is a command-line tool that digitally signs files, verifies the signatures in files, and timestamps files.
ms.assetid: aa59cb35-5fba-4ce8-97ea-fc767c83f88e
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/12/2020
---

# SignTool

SignTool is a command-line tool that digitally signs files, verifies the signatures in files, and timestamps files. For information about why signing files is important, see [Introduction to Code Signing](cryptography-tools.md). The tool is installed in the \\Bin folder of the Microsoft Windows Software Development Kit (SDK) installation path (Example: C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\10\bin\10.0.19041.0\x64\signtool.exe).

SignTool is available as part of the Windows SDK, which you can download from <https://developer.microsoft.com/windows/downloads/windows-10-sdk/>.

> [!Note]  
> A warning (error code 0, initially) will be thrown if /fd is not specified during signing and if /td is not specified during timestamping. In later versions of SignTool, the warning will become an error. " --> An error (error code 1) will be thrown if /fd is not specified during signing and if /td is not specified during timestamping  


## Syntax  
  
```console  
signtool [command] [options] [file_name | ...]  
```  

## Parameters  
  
|Argument|Description|  
|----|----|  
|`command`|One of four commands (`catdb`, `sign`, `Timestamp`, or `Verify`) that specifies an operation to perform on a file. For a description of each command, see the next table.|  
|`options`|An option that modifies a command. In addition to the global `/q` and `/v` options, each command supports a unique set of options.|  
|`file_name`|The path to a file to sign.| 


The following commands are supported by SignTool.

|Command|Description|  
|----|----|  
|`Catdb`|Adds a catalog file to, or removes it from, a catalog database. Catalog databases are used for automatic lookup of catalog files and are identified by GUID. For a list of the options supported by the `catdb` command, see [catdb Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#catdb-command-options).|  
|`Sign`|Digitally signs files. Digital signatures protect files from tampering, and enable users to verify the signer based on a signing certificate. For a list of the options supported by the `sign` command, see [sign Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#sign-command-options).|  
|`Timestamp`|Time-stamps files. For a list of the options supported by the `TimeStamp` command, see [TimeStamp Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#timestamp-command-options).|  
|`Verify`|Verifies the digital signature of files by determining whether the signing certificate was issued by a trusted authority, whether the signing certificate has been revoked, and, optionally, whether the signing certificate is valid for a specific policy. For a list of the options supported by the `Verify` command, see [Verify Command Options](/dotnet/framework/tools/signtool-exe#verify-command-options).|

 The following options apply to all Sign Tool commands.  
  
|Global option|Description|  
|----|----|  
|**/q**|Displays no output if the command runs successfully, and displays minimal output if the command fails.|  
|**/v**|Displays verbose output regardless of whether the command runs successfully or fails, and displays warning messages.|  
|**/debug**|Displays debugging information.|  

 
## Catdb command options  

 The following table lists the options that can be used with the `Catdb` command.

| Catdb option | Description |
|----|----| 
| **/d** | Specifies that the default catalog database be updated. If neither the **/d** nor **/g** option is used, SignTool updates the system component and driver database. |
| **/g** *GUID* | Specifies that the catalog database identified by the GUID be updated.|
| **/r** | Removes the specified catalog from the catalog database. If this option is not specified, SignTool will add the specified catalog to the catalog database.|
| **/u** | Specifies that a unique name be automatically generated for the added catalog files. If necessary, the catalog files are renamed to prevent name conflicts with existing catalog files. If this option is not specified, SignTool overwrites any existing catalog that has the same name as the catalog being added.|

> [!Note]  
> Catalog databases are used for automatic lookup of catalog files.


## Sign command options  

 The following table lists the options that can be used with the `sign` command.  
  
|Sign command option|Description|  
|----|----| 
|`/a`|Automatically selects the best signing certificate. Sign Tool will find all valid certificates that satisfy all specified conditions and select the one that is valid for the longest time. If this option is not present, Sign Tool expects to find only one valid signing certificate.|  
|`/ac`  *file*|Adds an additional certificate from *file* to the signature block.|  
|`/as`|Appends this signature. If no primary signature is present, this signature is made the primary signature instead.|  
|`/c`  *CertTemplateName*|Specifies the Certificate Template Name (a Microsoft extension) for the signing certificate.|  
|`/csp`  *CSPName*|Specifies the cryptographic service provider (CSP) that contains the private key container.|  
|`/d`  *Desc*|Specifies a description of the signed content.|  
|`/dg`  *Path*|Generates the digest to be signed and the unsigned PKCS7 files. The output digest and PKCS7 files will be: *Path\FileName.dig* and *Path\FileName.p7u*. To output an additional XML file, see <strong>/dxml</strong>.|  
|`/di`  *Path*|Creates the signature by ingesting the signed digest to the unsigned PKCS7 file. The input signed digest and unsigned PKCS7 files should be: *Path\FileName.dig.signed* and *Path\FileName.p7u*.|  
|`/dlib`  *DLL*|Specifies the DLL implementing the <code>AuthenticodeDigestSign</code> function to sign the digest with. This option is equivalent to using <strong>SignTool</strong> separately with the <strong>/dg</strong>, <strong>/ds</strong>, and <strong>/di</strong> switches, except this option invokes all three as one atomic operation.|  
|`/dmdf`  *Filename*|When used with the <strong>/dg</strong> option, passes the file’s contents to the <code>AuthenticodeDigestSign</code> function without modification.|  
|`/ds`  |Signs the digest only. The input file should be the digest generated by the <strong>/dg</strong> option. The output file will be: *File.signed*.|  
|`/du`  *URL*|Specifies a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the expanded description of the signed content.|  
|`/dxml`  |When used with the <strong>/dg</strong> option, produces an XML file. The output file will be: *Path\FileName.dig.xml*.|  
|`/f`  *SignCertFile*|Specifies the signing certificate in a file. If the file is in Personal Information Exchange (PFX) format and protected by a password, use the `/p` option to specify the password. If the file does not contain private keys, use the `/csp` and `/kc` options to specify the CSP and private key container name.|  
|`/fd` *alg*|Specifies the file digest algorithm to use for creating file signatures. </br> **Note:** An error  is generated if the /fd switch is not provided while signing.|
|`/fd`  *certHash*|Specifying the string certHash will default to the algorithm used on the signing certificate. </br> **Note:** An error  is generated if the /fd switch is not provided while signing.|  
|`/i`  *IssuerName*|Specifies the name of the issuer of the signing certificate. This value can be a substring of the entire issuer name.|  
|`/kc`  *PrivKeyContainerName*|Specifies the private key container name.|  
|`/n`  *SubjectName*|Specifies the name of the subject of the signing certificate. This value can be a substring of the entire subject name.|  
|`/nph`|If supported, suppresses page hashes for executable files. The default is determined by the SIGNTOOL_PAGE_HASHES environment variable and by the wintrust.dll version. This option is ignored for non-PE files.|  
|`/p`  *Password*|Specifies the password to use when opening a PFX file. (Use the `/f` option to specify a PFX file.)|  
|`/p7` *Path*|Specifies that a Public Key Cryptography Standards (PKCS) #7 file is produced for each specified content file. PKCS #7 files are named *path*\\*filename*.p7.|  
|`/p7ce` *Value*|Specifies options for the signed PKCS #7 content. Set *Value* to "Embedded" to embed the signed content in the PKCS #7 file, or to "DetachedSignedData" to produce the signed data portion of a detached PKCS #7 file. If the `/p7ce` option is not used, the signed content is embedded by default.|  
|`/p7co` *\<OID>*|Specifies the object identifier (OID) that identifies the signed PKCS #7 content.|  
|`/ph`|If supported, generates page hashes for executable files.|  
|`/r`  *RootSubjectName*|Specifies the name of the subject of the root certificate that the signing certificate must chain to. This value may be a substring of the entire subject name of the root certificate.|  
|`/s`  *StoreName*|Specifies the store to open when searching for the certificate. If this option is not specified, the `My` store is opened.|  
|`/sha1`  *Hash*|Specifies the SHA1 hash of the signing certificate. The SHA1 hash is commonly specified when multiple certificates satisfy the criteria specified by the remaining switches.|  
|`/sm`|Specifies that a machine store, instead of a user store, is used.|  
|`/t`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the time stamp server. If this option (or `/tr`) is not present, the signed file will not be time stamped. A warning is generated if time stamping fails. This option cannot be used with the `/tr` option.|  
|`/td`  *alg*|Used with the `/tr` option to request a digest algorithm used by the RFC 3161 time stamp server. </br> **Note:** An error is generated if /td is not provided while timestamping." (there is no default anymore <- does not need to go in doc.|
|`/tr`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the RFC 3161 time stamp server. If this option (or `/t`) is not present, the signed file will not be time stamped. A warning is generated if time stamping fails. This option cannot be used with the `/t` option.|  
|`/u`  *Usage*|Specifies the enhanced key usage (EKU) that must be present in the signing certificate. The usage value can be specified by OID or string. The default usage is "Code Signing" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.3).|  
|`/uw`|Specifies usage of "Windows System Component Verification" (1.3.6.1.4.1.311.10.3.6).|  
  
 For usage examples, see [Using SignTool to Sign a File](using-signtool-to-sign-a-file.md).  
  

## TimeStamp command options  

 The following table lists the options that can be used with the `TimeStamp` command.  
  
|TimeStamp option|Description|  
|----|----|  
|`/p7`|Time stamps PKCS #7 files.|  
|`/t`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the time stamp server. The file being time stamped must have previously been signed. Either the `/t` or the `/tr` option is required.|  
|`/td`  *alg*|Used with the `/tr` option to request a digest algorithm used by the RFC 3161 time stamp server. </br> **Note:** An error is generated if /td is not provided while timestamping." (there is no default anymore <- does not need to go in doc |
|`/tp` *index*|Time stamps the signature at *index*.|  
|`/tr`  *URL*|Specifies the URL of the RFC 3161 time stamp server. The file being time stamped must have previously been signed. Either the `/tr` or the `/t` option is required.|  


## Verify command options  

|Verify option|Description|
|----|----|
| **/a** | Specifies that all methods can be used to verify the file. First, the catalog databases are searched to determine whether the file is signed in a catalog. If the file is not signed in any catalog, SignTool attempts to verify the file's embedded signature. This option is recommended when verifying files that may or may not be signed in a catalog. Examples of files that may or may not be signed include Windows files or drivers. |
| **/ad** | Finds the catalog by using the default catalog database. |
| **/all** | Verifies all signatures in a file with multiple signatures. |
| **/as** | Finds the catalog by using the system component (driver) catalog database. |
| **/ag** *CatDBGUID* | Finds the catalog in the catalog database identified by the **GUID**. |
| **/c** *CatFile* | Specifies the catalog file by name. |
| **/d** | Print the description and description URL.<br/> **Windows Vista and earlier:** This flag is not supported.<br/> |
| **/ds** *Index* | Verifies the signature at a certain position. |
| **/hash**{**SHA1**\|**SHA256**} | Specifies an optional hash algorithm to use when searching for a file in a catalog. |
| **/kp** | Performs the verification by using the x64 kernel-mode driver signing policy. |
| **/ms** | Uses multiple verification semantics. This is the default behavior of a [**WinVerifyTrust**](/windows/desktop/api/Wintrust/nf-wintrust-winverifytrust) call. |
| **/o** *Version* | Verifies the file by operating system version. The version parameter is of the form:<br/> *PlatformID***:***VerMajor***.***VerMinor***.***BuildNumber*<br/> The use of the */o* switch is recommended. If */o* is not specified SignTool may return unexpected results. For example, if you do not include the */o* switch, then system catalogs that validate correctly on an older OS may not validate correctly on a newer OS. |
| **/p7** | Verify PKCS \#7 files. No existing policies are used for PKCS \#7 validation. The signature is checked and a chain is built for the signing certificate. |
| **/pa** | Specifies that the Default Authentication Verification Policy is used. If the **/pa** option is not specified, SignTool uses the Windows Driver Verification Policy. This option cannot be used with the **catdb** options. |
| **/pg** *PolicyGUID* | Specifies a verification policy by **GUID**. The **GUID** corresponds to the ActionID of the verification policy. This option cannot be used with the **catdb** options. |
| **/ph** | Print and verify page hash values.<br/> **Windows Vista and earlier:** This flag is not supported.<br/>  |
| **/r** *RootSubjectName* | Specifies the name of the subject of the root certificate that the signing certificate must chain to. This value can be a substring of the entire subject name of the root certificate. |
| **/tw** | Specifies that a warning is generated if the signature is not time stamped.|


The SignTool **verify** command determines whether the signing certificate was issued by a trusted authority, whether the signing certificate has been revoked, and, optionally, whether the signing certificate is valid for a specific policy.  

The SignTool **verify** command will output the **embedded** signature status unless an option is specified to search a catalog (/a, /ad, /as, /ag, /c).


## Return value  

 Sign Tool returns one of the following exit codes when it terminates.  
  
|Exit code|Description|  
|----|----| 
|0|Execution was successful.|  
|1|Execution has failed.|  
|2|Execution has completed with warnings.|


## Examples  

 The following command adds the catalog file MyCatalogFileName.cat to the system component and driver database. The `/u` option generates a unique name if necessary to prevent replacing an existing catalog file named `MyCatalogFileName.cat`.  
  
```console  
signtool catdb /v /u MyCatalogFileName.cat  
```  
  
 The following command signs a file automatically by using the best certificate.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /a /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command digitally signs a file by using a certificate stored in a password-protected PFX file.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /f MyCert.pfx /p MyPassword /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command digitally signs and time-stamps a file. The certificate used to sign the file is stored in a PFX file.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /f MyCert.pfx /t http://timestamp.digicert.com /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command signs a file by using a certificate located in the `My` store that has a subject name of `My Company Certificate`.  
  
```console  
signtool sign /n "My Company Certificate" /fd SHA256 MyFile.exe 
```  
  
 The following command signs an ActiveX control and provides information that is displayed by Internet Explorer when the user is prompted to install the control.  
  
```console  
Signtool sign /f MyCert.pfx /d: "MyControl" /du http://www.example.com/MyControl/info.html /fd SHA256 MyControl.exe 
```  
  
 The following command time-stamps a file that has already been digitally signed.  
  
```console  
signtool timestamp /t http://timestamp.digicert.com MyFile.exe
```  

The following command time-stamps a file using an RFC 3161 timestamp server.  
  
```console  
signtool timestamp /tr http://timestamp.digicert.com /td SHA256 MyFile.exe
```  
  
 The following command verifies that a file has been signed.  
  
```console  
signtool verify MyFile.exe  
```  
  
 The following command verifies a system file that may be signed in a catalog.  
  
```console  
signtool verify /a SystemFile.dll  
```  
  
 The following command verifies a system file that is signed in a catalog named `MyCatalog.cat`.  
  
```console  
signtool verify /c MyCatalog.cat SystemFile.dll  
```
