---
description: Adding Transform Nodes with TopoEdit
ms.assetid: e1725c37-3f04-4208-9c09-56ce9a854138
title: Adding Transform Nodes with TopoEdit
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Adding Transform Nodes with TopoEdit

A transform node represents a Media Foundation Transform (MFT) that processes media data it receives from a source node. When ready, the pipeline passes it to the output node for rendering. In Media Foundation, encoders, decoders, multiplexers, de-multiplexers, and audio video effects are implemented as MFTs. TopoEdit supports adding transform nodes that represent both registered and custom MFTs.

For information about adding transform nodes programmatically by using Media Foundation APIs, see [Creating Transform Nodes](creating-transform-nodes.md).

## To add a registered MFT to the topology

1.  On the **Topology** menu, click **Add Transform**.

    The **Select Transform** dialog box opens. It displays a categorized list of registered MFTs that is generated by enumerating the registered entries in the registry by calling the [**MFTEnum**](/windows/desktop/api/mfapi/nf-mfapi-mftenum) function.

2.  Expand the category and select the MFT that you want to add to the topology.

3.  Click **OK** to close the dialog box and return to the **Topology Pane**.

TopoEdit creates the specified transform node. The **Topology Pane** shows the transform node as a green box that displays the name of the MFT.

## To add a custom MFT to the topology

1.  On the **Topology** menu, click **Add Custom MFT**.

    This opens the **Input Custom GUID** dialog box.

2.  In the **GUID:** field, enter the GUID of the MFT that you want to add to the topology.

    > [!Note]  
    > TopoEdit expects the GUID in the format "{xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx}". Otherwise, it fails to add the node and displays an "Invalid GUID" error message.

     

3.  Click **OK** to close the dialog box and return to the **Topology Pane**.

TopoEdit creates the specified transform node. The **Topology Pane** shows the transform node as a green box that displays the name of the MFT.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Building Topologies by Using TopoEdit](building-topologies-by-using-topoedit.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Media Foundation Transforms](media-foundation-transforms.md)
</dt> <dt>

[TopoEdit](topoedit.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 



