desktop-src/medfound/direct3d-12-video-interfaces.md, before:

---
description: This section contains reference information for the Microsoft Direct3D 12 video interfaces.
ms.assetid: 
title: Direct3D 12 Video Interfaces
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/03/2019
---

# Direct3D 12 Video Interfaces

This section contains reference information for the Microsoft Direct3D 12 video interfaces.

## In this section



| Topic                                                                                | Description                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [ID3D11VideoContext3](/windows/desktop/api/d3d11_4/nn-d3d11_4-id3d11videocontext3)  | Provides the video functionality of a Microsoft Direct3D 11 device. |
| [ID3D12VideoDecodeCommandList](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecodecommandlist)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video decoding.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecodeCommandList1](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecodecommandlist1)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video decoding.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecoder](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecoder)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video decoder.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecoder1](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecoder1)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video decoder that contains resolution-independent resources and state for performing the decode operation. Adds support for protected resources.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecoderHeap](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecoderheap)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video decoder heap.|
| [ID3D12VideoDevice](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodevice)  | Provides video decoding and processing capabilities of a Microsoft Direct3D 12 device including the ability to query video capabilities and instantiating video decoders and processors.|
| [ID3D11VideoDevice2](/windows/desktop/api/d3d11_4/nn-d3d11_4-id3d11videodevice2)  | Provides the video decoding and video processing capabilities of a Microsoft Direct3D 11 device.|
| [ID3D12VideoExtensionCommand](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoextensioncommand)  | A reference counted object representing the video extension command.|
| [ID3D12VideoEncodeCommandList](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoencodecommandlist)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video encoding, including motion estimation.|
| [ID3D12VideoMotionEstimator](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videomotionestimator)  | This interface maintains context for video motion estimation operations.|
| [ID3D12VideoMotionVectorHeap](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videomotionvectorheap)  | Represents a heap in which estimated motion vectors are stored.|
| [ID3D12VideoProcessCommandList](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoprocesscommandlist)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video processing.|
| [ID3D12VideoProcessCommandList1](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoprocesscommandlist1)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video processing.|
| [ID3D12VideoProcessor](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoprocessor)  | Provides methods for getting information about the parameters to the call to ID3D12VideoDevice::CreateVideoProcessor that created the video processor.|



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Direct3D 12 Video APIs](direct3d-12-video-apis.md)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

Adding links to video encode reference content

desktop-src/medfound/direct3d-12-video-interfaces.md, after:

---
description: This section contains reference information for the Microsoft Direct3D 12 video interfaces.
ms.assetid: 
title: Direct3D 12 Video Interfaces
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/03/2019
---

# Direct3D 12 Video Interfaces

This section contains reference information for the Microsoft Direct3D 12 video interfaces.

## In this section



| Topic                                                                                | Description                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [ID3D11VideoContext3](/windows/desktop/api/d3d11_4/nn-d3d11_4-id3d11videocontext3)  | Provides the video functionality of a Microsoft Direct3D 11 device. |
| [ID3D12VideoDecodeCommandList](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecodecommandlist)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video decoding.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecodeCommandList1](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecodecommandlist1)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video decoding.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecoder](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecoder)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video decoder.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecoder1](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecoder1)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video decoder that contains resolution-independent resources and state for performing the decode operation. Adds support for protected resources.|
| [ID3D12VideoDecoderHeap](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodecoderheap)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video decoder heap.|
| [ID3D12VideoDevice](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodevice)  | Provides video decoding and processing capabilities of a Microsoft Direct3D 12 device including the ability to query video capabilities and instantiating video decoders and processors.|
| [ID3D11VideoDevice2](/windows/desktop/api/d3d11_4/nn-d3d11_4-id3d11videodevice2)  | Provides the video decoding and video processing capabilities of a Microsoft Direct3D 11 device.|
| [ID3D12VideoDevice3](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videodevice3)  | Extends the ID3D12VideoDevice interface to add support video encoding capabilities.|
| [ID3D12VideoExtensionCommand](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoextensioncommand)  | A reference counted object representing the video extension command.|
| [ID3D12VideoEncodeCommandList](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoencodecommandlist)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video encoding, including motion estimation.|
| [ID3D12VideoEncodeCommandList1](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoencodecommandlist1)  | This interface inherits from ID3D12VideoEncodeCommandList and adds support for video extension commands.|
| [ID3D12VideoEncodeCommandList2](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoencodecommandlist2)  | This interface inherits from ID3D12VideoEncodeCommandList1 and adds methods for encoding video and 
resolving encode operation metadata.|
| [ID3D12VideoEncoder](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoencoder)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video encoder.|
| [ID3D12VideoEncoderHeap](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoencoderheap)  | Represents a Direct3D 12 video encoder heap.|
| [ID3D12VideoMotionEstimator](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videomotionestimator)  | This interface maintains context for video motion estimation operations.|
| [ID3D12VideoMotionVectorHeap](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videomotionvectorheap)  | Represents a heap in which estimated motion vectors are stored.|
| [ID3D12VideoProcessCommandList](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoprocesscommandlist)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video processing.|
| [ID3D12VideoProcessCommandList1](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoprocesscommandlist1)  | Encapsulates a list of graphics commands for video processing.|
| [ID3D12VideoProcessor](/windows/desktop/api/d3d12video/nn-d3d12video-id3d12videoprocessor)  | Provides methods for getting information about the parameters to the call to ID3D12VideoDevice::CreateVideoProcessor that created the video processor.|



 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Direct3D 12 Video APIs](direct3d-12-video-apis.md)
</dt> </dl>
