desktop-src/WmiSdk/mi-managed-api/microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.md, before:

---
description: "Learn more about: CimMofDeserializer class"
title: CimMofDeserializer class (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
TOCTitle: CimMofDeserializer class (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
ms:assetid: T:Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer
ms.date: 11/12/2019
mtps_version: v=VS.85
f1_keywords:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer
- Microsoft::Management::Infrastructure::Serialization::CimMofDeserializer
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- C++
- VB
- FSharp
api_location:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll
api_name:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer
api_type:
- Assembly
topic_type:
- apiref
product_family_name: VS
ms.topic: reference
---

# CimMofDeserializer class

Represents a CIM MOF deserializer.

**Namespace:**   [Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))  
**Assembly:**  Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure (in Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll)  

## Inheritance hierarchy

[System.Object](/dotnet/api/system.object?view=netframework-4.8)  
  Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer  

## Syntax

``` csharp
internal class CimMofDeserializer : IDisposable
```

``` c++
private ref class CimMofDeserializer : IDisposable
```

``` fsharp
type internal CimMofDeserializer = 
    class
        interface IDisposable
    end
```

``` vb
Friend Class CimMofDeserializer
    Implements IDisposable
```

## Thread safety

Any public static (**Shared** in Visual Basic) members of this type are thread-safe. Any instance members are not guaranteed to be thread-safe.

## See also

[Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))

Commit message:

Validation: preserve-view-not-set fixes. (#1343)
* preserve-view-not-set fixes.

* Added descriptions that meet current description requirements.

* Added more descriptions.

* Update microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.deserializeinstances_byte_uint.md

* Update microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.getincludedfilecontent.md

* Update microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.onclassneeded.md

* All titles should be sentence-case

Co-authored-by: Steven White <31261191+stevewhims@users.noreply.github.com>

desktop-src/WmiSdk/mi-managed-api/microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.md, after:

---
description: Describes a CimMofDeserializer class, which represents a CIM MOF deserializer, and provides its inheritance hierarchy, syntax, and thread safety.
title: CimMofDeserializer class (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
TOCTitle: CimMofDeserializer class (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
ms:assetid: T:Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer
ms.date: 11/12/2019
mtps_version: v=VS.85
f1_keywords:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer
- Microsoft::Management::Infrastructure::Serialization::CimMofDeserializer
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- C++
- VB
- FSharp
api_location:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll
api_name:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer
api_type:
- Assembly
topic_type:
- apiref
product_family_name: VS
ms.topic: reference
---

# CimMofDeserializer class

Represents a CIM MOF deserializer.

**Namespace:**   [Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))  
**Assembly:**  Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure (in Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll)  

## Inheritance hierarchy

[System.Object](/dotnet/api/system.object)  
  Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer  

## Syntax

``` csharp
internal class CimMofDeserializer : IDisposable
```

``` c++
private ref class CimMofDeserializer : IDisposable
```

``` fsharp
type internal CimMofDeserializer = 
    class
        interface IDisposable
    end
```

``` vb
Friend Class CimMofDeserializer
    Implements IDisposable
```

## Thread safety

Any public static (**Shared** in Visual Basic) members of this type are thread-safe. Any instance members are not guaranteed to be thread-safe.

## See also

[Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))
