desktop-src/WmiSdk/mi-managed-api/microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.deserializeinstances_byte_uint.md, before:

---
description: "Learn more about: CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances method (Byte[], UInt32)"
title: CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances method (Byte[], UInt32) (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
TOCTitle: CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances method (Byte[], UInt32) (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
ms:assetid: M:Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances(System.Byte[],System.UInt32@)
ms.date: 11/14/2019
mtps_version: v=VS.85
dev_langs:
- csharp
- c++
- fsharp
- vb
api_location:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll
api_name:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances
api_type:
- Assembly
topic_type:
- apiref
product_family_name: VS
ms.topic: reference
---

# CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances method (Byte\[\], UInt32)

Deserializes CIM instances based on serialized data.

**Namespace:**   [Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))  
**Assembly:**  Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure (in Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll)  

## Syntax

``` csharp
public IEnumerable<CimInstance> DeserializeInstances(
    byte[] serializedData,
    ref uint offset
)
```

``` c++
public:
IEnumerable<CimInstance^>^ DeserializeInstances(
    array<unsigned char>^ serializedData,
    unsigned int% offset
)
```

``` fsharp
member DeserializeInstances : 
        serializedData:byte[] *
        offset:uint32 byref -> IEnumerable<CimInstance>
```

``` vb
Public Function DeserializeInstances (
    serializedData As Byte(),
    ByRef offset As UInteger
) As IEnumerable(CimInstance)
```

#### Parameters

  - serializedData  
    Type: [System.Byte](/dotnet/api/system.byte?view=netframework-4.8)\[\]
    
    A buffer that contains the serialized data.

<!-- end list -->

  - offset  
    Type: [System.UInt32](/dotnet/api/system.uint32?view=netframework-4.8)
    
    The byte offset to the location at which to begin reading the data. When the method returns, the offset will be pointing to the next byte after the deserialized instances.

#### Return value

Type: [System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable](/dotnet/api/system.collections.generic.ienumerable-1?view=netframework-4.8)\<[CimInstance](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832336(v=vs.85))\>

An [IEnumerable\<T\>](/dotnet/api/system.collections.generic.ienumerable-1?view=netframework-4.8) interface that can be used to enumerate the CIM classes.

## See also

[CimInstance class](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832336(v=vs.85))  
[Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization namespace](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))

Commit message:

Validation: preserve-view-not-set fixes. (#1343)
* preserve-view-not-set fixes.

* Added descriptions that meet current description requirements.

* Added more descriptions.

* Update microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.deserializeinstances_byte_uint.md

* Update microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.getincludedfilecontent.md

* Update microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.onclassneeded.md

* All titles should be sentence-case

Co-authored-by: Steven White <31261191+stevewhims@users.noreply.github.com>

desktop-src/WmiSdk/mi-managed-api/microsoft.management.infrastructure.serialization.cimmofdeserializer.deserializeinstances_byte_uint.md, after:

---
description: Describes the **CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances** method, and documents its syntax, parameters, and return value.
title: CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances method (Byte[], UInt32) (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
TOCTitle: CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances method (Byte[], UInt32) (Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization)
ms:assetid: M:Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances(System.Byte[],System.UInt32@)
ms.date: 11/14/2019
mtps_version: v=VS.85
dev_langs:
- csharp
- c++
- fsharp
- vb
api_location:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll
api_name:
- Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization.CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances
api_type:
- Assembly
topic_type:
- apiref
product_family_name: VS
ms.topic: reference
---

# CimMofDeserializer.DeserializeInstances method (Byte\[\], UInt32)

Deserializes CIM instances based on serialized data.

**Namespace:**   [Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))  
**Assembly:**  Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure (in Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.dll)  

## Syntax

``` csharp
public IEnumerable<CimInstance> DeserializeInstances(
    byte[] serializedData,
    ref uint offset
)
```

``` c++
public:
IEnumerable<CimInstance^>^ DeserializeInstances(
    array<unsigned char>^ serializedData,
    unsigned int% offset
)
```

``` fsharp
member DeserializeInstances : 
        serializedData:byte[] *
        offset:uint32 byref -> IEnumerable<CimInstance>
```

``` vb
Public Function DeserializeInstances (
    serializedData As Byte(),
    ByRef offset As UInteger
) As IEnumerable(CimInstance)
```

#### Parameters

  - serializedData  
    Type: [System.Byte](/dotnet/api/system.byte)\[\]
    
    A buffer that contains the serialized data.

<!-- end list -->

  - offset  
    Type: [System.UInt32](/dotnet/api/system.uint32)
    
    The byte offset to the location at which to begin reading the data. When the method returns, the offset will be pointing to the next byte after the deserialized instances.

#### Return value

Type: [System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable](/dotnet/api/system.collections.generic.ienumerable-1)\<[CimInstance](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832336(v=vs.85))\>

An [IEnumerable\<T\>](/dotnet/api/system.collections.generic.ienumerable-1) interface that can be used to enumerate the CIM classes.

## See also

[CimInstance class](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832336(v=vs.85))  
[Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.Serialization namespace](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/wmi_v2/mi-managed-api/hh832966(v=vs.85))
