desktop-src/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-what-s-new.md, before:

---
description: This section describes the new features that were added to Performance Counters for each release.
ms.assetid: 14bdae6c-9dcd-401e-8c43-5391e00cf7e3
title: Whats New (Performance Counters)
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# What's New with Performance Counters

This section describes the new features that were added to Performance Counters for each release.

## Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2

The [CTRPP](ctrpp.md) tool was changed to improve and simplify code generation. The tool now generates only a header and resource file. If you want to old code generation behavior (not recommended), you can use the new `-legacy` argument.

- You must now specify the new `-o` and `-rc` arguments that specify the name and location of the header and resource file, respectively.
- You can use the optional new `-prefix` argument to specify a string to add to the beginning of global variables and functions defined in the generated header file.
- If you have to update your counters manifest, using the new code generation eliminates the need to merge your previous callback implementation with the new generated code since the callbacks are no longer included in the generated code.

A new `symbol` attribute is available for the following manifest elements:

- [provider](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-provider--counters--element)
- [counterSet](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counterset--provider--element)
- [counter](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counter--counterset--element)

The `symbol` attribute is required for [provider](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-provider--counters--element) and [counterSet](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counterset--provider--element), and is optional for [counter](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counter--counterset--element). The attribute lets you provide a symbolic name that you can use to reference each element when calling the provider functions (for example, you can use the counter set symbolic name when calling [PerfCreateInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfcreateinstance)).

## Windows Vista

The Performance Counters architecture for providing counter data was completely changed for this release.

Previously, you used an INI file to define your counter data and you implemented a performance DLL which ran in the consumer's process to provide the data when a consumer requested it. This architecture is deprecated and is not recommended for new code due to significant performance and reliability issues.

The new architecture uses a manifest to define the counter data and runs code in the provider's process to provide the data when a consumer requests it. For additional details, see [Providing Counter Data Using Version 2.0](providing-counter-data-using-version-2-0.md).

The following functions were added for this release:

- [ControlCallback](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nc-perflib-perflibrequest)
- [PerfCreateInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfcreateinstance)
- [PerfDeleteInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfdeleteinstance)
- [PerfQueryInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfqueryinstance)
- [PerfSetCounterSetInfo](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetcountersetinfo)
- [PerfSetULongCounterValue](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetulongcountervalue)
- [PerfSetULongLongCounterValue](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetulonglongcountervalue)
- [PerfSetCounterRefValue](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetcounterrefvalue)
- [PerfStartProvider](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfstartprovider)
- [PerfStopProvider](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfstopprovider)

The following structures were added for this release:

- [PERF\_COUNTER\_IDENTITY](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counter_identity)
- [PERF\_COUNTER\_INFO](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counter_info)
- [PERF\_COUNTERSET\_INFO](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counterset_info)
- [PERF\_COUNTERSET\_INSTANCE](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counterset_instance)

For a list of the XML elements that you use in your manifest to define your counters, see [Performance Counters Schema](performance-counters-schema.md).

For information on the CTRPP pre-processor tool that parses your manifest and generates the code that you use as the starting point for your provider, see [CTRPP](ctrpp.md).

Commit message:

Performance Counters - metadata-only queries
Add an explanation for the metadata-only query system that was recently
added to V1 performance counters.

Summary:

- If using V2 performance counters, or if using V1 performance counters
  via PDH.dll, nothing to be aware of except that some PDH APIs are now
  more efficient since PDH will automatically perform metadata-only
  queries as appropriate.
- If consuming V1 performance counters through the registry APIs and you
  have been using `Global` query to make a list of the available
  counters on the system, you should now check for the
  `PerfLib\Supports Metadata` registry value. If present and set to a
  nonzero value, you should use a `MetadataGlobal` query instead of a
  `Global` query, as this will be more efficient.
- If providing V1 performance counters, you should add support for
  `MetadataGlobal` queries, and you should add a
  `<servicename>\Performance\Collect Supports Metadata` registry value
  with value 1 to indicate that your DLL supports `MetadataGlobal`
  queries.

desktop-src/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-what-s-new.md, after:

---
description: This section describes the new features that were added to Performance Counters for each release.
ms.assetid: 14bdae6c-9dcd-401e-8c43-5391e00cf7e3
title: Whats New (Performance Counters)
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# What's New with Performance Counters

This section describes the new features that were added to Performance Counters for each release.

## Windows 10 20H1

If you are reading performance data directly from the [registry](using-the-registry-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md), you can now perform a metadata-only collection to avoid unnecessary work when making a list of available performance objects and counters. If you use `MetadataGlobal` instead of `Global` in your query, all metadata-enabled provider DLLs will skip the data collection step, potentially improving query performance on systems with many processes or threads. Provider DLLs that are not metadata-enabled will continue to work as before.

If you are providing performance data using a [performance DLL](providing-counter-data-using-a-performance-dll.md), you can implement support for metadata-only collection to avoid unnecessary data collection. Update your `Collect` function to respond to `MetadataGlobal` and `MetadataCostly` queries with just the metadata (use `PERF_METADATA_NO_INSTANCES` or `PERF_METADATA_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES` for `NumInstances` and omit all `PERF_INSTANCE_DEFINITION` blocks from the response), then add a `Collect Supports Metadata` registry value with `REG_DWORD` value of 1 to your service's `Performance` subkey.

## Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2

The [CTRPP](ctrpp.md) tool was changed to improve and simplify code generation. The tool now generates only a header and resource file. If you want to old code generation behavior (not recommended), you can use the new `-legacy` argument.

- You must now specify the new `-o` and `-rc` arguments that specify the name and location of the header and resource file, respectively.
- You can use the optional new `-prefix` argument to specify a string to add to the beginning of global variables and functions defined in the generated header file.
- If you have to update your counters manifest, using the new code generation eliminates the need to merge your previous callback implementation with the new generated code since the callbacks are no longer included in the generated code.

A new `symbol` attribute is available for the following manifest elements:

- [provider](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-provider--counters--element)
- [counterSet](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counterset--provider--element)
- [counter](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counter--counterset--element)

The `symbol` attribute is required for [provider](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-provider--counters--element) and [counterSet](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counterset--provider--element), and is optional for [counter](/windows/desktop/PerfCtrs/performance-counters-counter--counterset--element). The attribute lets you provide a symbolic name that you can use to reference each element when calling the provider functions (for example, you can use the counter set symbolic name when calling [PerfCreateInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfcreateinstance)).

## Windows Vista

The Performance Counters architecture for providing counter data was completely changed for this release.

Previously, you used an INI file to define your counter data and you implemented a performance DLL which ran in the consumer's process to provide the data when a consumer requested it. This architecture is deprecated and is not recommended for new code due to significant performance and reliability issues.

The new architecture uses a manifest to define the counter data and runs code in the provider's process to provide the data when a consumer requests it. For additional details, see [Providing Counter Data Using Version 2.0](providing-counter-data-using-version-2-0.md).

The following functions were added for this release:

- [ControlCallback](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nc-perflib-perflibrequest)
- [PerfCreateInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfcreateinstance)
- [PerfDeleteInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfdeleteinstance)
- [PerfQueryInstance](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfqueryinstance)
- [PerfSetCounterSetInfo](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetcountersetinfo)
- [PerfSetULongCounterValue](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetulongcountervalue)
- [PerfSetULongLongCounterValue](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetulonglongcountervalue)
- [PerfSetCounterRefValue](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfsetcounterrefvalue)
- [PerfStartProvider](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfstartprovider)
- [PerfStopProvider](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/nf-perflib-perfstopprovider)

The following structures were added for this release:

- [PERF\_COUNTER\_IDENTITY](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counter_identity)
- [PERF\_COUNTER\_INFO](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counter_info)
- [PERF\_COUNTERSET\_INFO](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counterset_info)
- [PERF\_COUNTERSET\_INSTANCE](/windows/desktop/api/Perflib/ns-perflib-perf_counterset_instance)

For a list of the XML elements that you use in your manifest to define your counters, see [Performance Counters Schema](performance-counters-schema.md).

For information on the CTRPP pre-processor tool that parses your manifest and generates the code that you use as the starting point for your provider, see [CTRPP](ctrpp.md).
