desktop-src/PerfCtrs/using-the-registry-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md, before:

---
description: You can use the registry functions to collect performance data.
ms.assetid: feac7b8d-1dee-462c-89dc-bec1ba045da2
title: Using the Registry Functions to Consume Counter Data
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 08/17/2020
---

# Using the Registry Functions to Consume Counter Data

Use the [registry functions](/windows/desktop/SysInfo/registry-functions) to collect performance data from the special `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` registry key.

Performance data is not actually stored in the registry. Calling the registry functions causes the system to collect the data from the appropriate performance data provider.

> [!Note]
> You should not normally use the registry functions to consume counter data. Instead, you should [use the Performance Data Helper (PDH) functions](using-the-pdh-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md). The PDH functions are easier to use and avoid many performance and reliability problems that can occur through incorrect use of the registry functions.

> [!Note]
> You cannot use the registry functions if you are writing Windows OneCore apps. Instead, use [PerfLib V2 Consumer functions](using-the-perflib-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md).

The registry functions are the low-level API for collecting data from **V1 providers**. The registry functions also support collecting data from **V2 providers** via a translation layer that calls into the [V2 Consumer functions](using-the-perflib-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md).

To obtain performance data from the local system, call the [**RegQueryValueEx**](/windows/win32/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regqueryvalueexw) function. Use `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` as the key. The first call opens the key. You do not need to explicitly open the key first.

To obtain performance data from a remote system, call the [**RegConnectRegistry**](/windows/desktop/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regconnectregistryw) function. Use the computer name of the remote system and use `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` as the key. This call retrieves a key representing the performance data for the remote system. Use this key rather than `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` key to retrieve the data.

Be sure to use the [**RegCloseKey**](/windows/desktop/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regclosekey) function to close the handle to the key when you are finished obtaining the performance data. This is important for both the local and remote cases:

- `RegCloseKey(HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA)` does not actually close a registry handle, but it clears all cached data and frees the loaded performance DLLs.
- `RegCloseKey(hkeyRemotePerformanceData)` closes the handle to the remote machine's registry.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Do not call `RegCloseKey(HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA)` during `DLL_PROCESS_DETACH`.

You use the `lpValueName` parameter of the [**RegQueryValueEx**](/windows/desktop/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regqueryvalueexa) function to indicate the information to retrieve. The following table lists the values you can specify for `lpValueName`. Note that the value strings are not case-sensitive.

|Value|Description
|-----|-----------
|`Global`| Retrieves performance data for all performance objects registered on the computer except for those included in the `Costly` category.
|`OLD_Global`| **Windows Vista and later:** Retrieves performance data for all **V1** performance objects registered on the computer except for those included in the `Costly` category. Use this instead of `Global` to avoid collecting unnecessary V2 provider data when you know that the data of interest comes from a V1 provider.
|`n1 n2 ...`| Retrieves performance data for one or more performance objects. Specify the decimal index associated with each object that you want to retrieve in a space-separated list. For example, if you want to retrieve System and Memory objects and you have determined that the indexes of the corresponding name strings are 2 and 4, specify the string `"2 4"`. Note that the query can return a different number of objects than you requested. This can happen if the specified object is unavailable, if the specified object depends on another object type, or if a provider otherwise returns data that was not directly requested. For example, threads depend on processes, so if you request data from the `Thread` object, the results will include data from the `Process` object.
|`Counter n`| Retrieves name strings for the specified language identifier, e.g. English for `Counter 9`. Use the returned name strings to find the index corresponding to a given name or to find the name corresponding to a given index. See [Retrieving Counter Names and Help Text](retrieving-counter-names-and-help-text.md) for details. Note that the returned list includes both object (counterset) names and counter names -- there is no simple way to determine whether a name is an object name or a counter name.
|`Help n`| Retrieves help strings for the specified language identifier, e.g. English for `Help 9`. Use the returned help strings to find descriptions corresponding to object (counterset) or counter help indexes. See [Retrieving Counter Names and Help Text](retrieving-counter-names-and-help-text.md) for details.
|`Costly`| **Deprecated:** Retrieves performance data for object types whose data is expensive to collect in terms of processor time or memory usage. This collection may take several minutes on a heavily-loaded machine. You should perform the collection on a worker thread if your application needs to respond to the user during this data collection.

For details on the format of the performance data that the registry returns, see [Performance Data Format](performance-data-format.md).

For an example that gets the names and descriptions of the registered counters on the computer, see [Retrieving Counter Names and Help Text](retrieving-counter-names-and-help-text.md).

For an example that accesses the components of the performance data, see [Displaying Object, Instance, and Counter Names](displaying-object-instance-and-counter-names.md).

For an example that retrieves, computes, and prints counter values, see [Retrieving Counter Data](retrieving-counter-data.md) and [Calculating Counter Values](calculating-counter-values.md).

Commit message:

Performance Counters - metadata-only queries
Add an explanation for the metadata-only query system that was recently
added to V1 performance counters.

Summary:

- If using V2 performance counters, or if using V1 performance counters
  via PDH.dll, nothing to be aware of except that some PDH APIs are now
  more efficient since PDH will automatically perform metadata-only
  queries as appropriate.
- If consuming V1 performance counters through the registry APIs and you
  have been using `Global` query to make a list of the available
  counters on the system, you should now check for the
  `PerfLib\Supports Metadata` registry value. If present and set to a
  nonzero value, you should use a `MetadataGlobal` query instead of a
  `Global` query, as this will be more efficient.
- If providing V1 performance counters, you should add support for
  `MetadataGlobal` queries, and you should add a
  `<servicename>\Performance\Collect Supports Metadata` registry value
  with value 1 to indicate that your DLL supports `MetadataGlobal`
  queries.

desktop-src/PerfCtrs/using-the-registry-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md, after:

---
description: You can use the registry functions to collect performance data.
ms.assetid: feac7b8d-1dee-462c-89dc-bec1ba045da2
title: Using the Registry Functions to Consume Counter Data
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 08/17/2020
---

# Using the Registry Functions to Consume Counter Data

Use the [registry functions](/windows/desktop/SysInfo/registry-functions) to collect performance data from the special `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` registry key.

Performance data is not actually stored in the registry. Calling the registry functions causes the system to collect the data from the appropriate performance data provider.

> [!NOTE]
> You should not normally use the registry functions to consume counter data. Instead, you should [use the Performance Data Helper (PDH) functions](using-the-pdh-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md). The PDH functions are easier to use and avoid many performance and reliability problems that can occur through incorrect use of the registry functions.

> [!NOTE]
> You cannot use the registry functions if you are writing Windows OneCore apps. Instead, use [PerfLib V2 Consumer functions](using-the-perflib-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md).

The registry functions are the low-level API for collecting data from **V1 providers**. The registry functions also support collecting data from **V2 providers** via a translation layer that calls into the [V2 Consumer functions](using-the-perflib-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md).

To obtain performance data from the local system, call the [**RegQueryValueEx**](/windows/win32/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regqueryvalueexw) function. Use `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` as the key. The first call opens the key. You do not need to explicitly open the key first.

To obtain performance data from a remote system, call the [**RegConnectRegistry**](/windows/desktop/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regconnectregistryw) function. Use the computer name of the remote system and use `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` as the key. This call retrieves a key representing the performance data for the remote system. Use this key rather than `HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA` key to retrieve the data.

Be sure to use the [**RegCloseKey**](/windows/desktop/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regclosekey) function to close the handle to the key when you are finished obtaining the performance data. This is important for both the local and remote cases:

- `RegCloseKey(HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA)` does not actually close a registry handle, but it clears all cached data and frees the loaded performance DLLs.
- `RegCloseKey(hkeyRemotePerformanceData)` closes the handle to the remote machine's registry.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Do not call `RegCloseKey(HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA)` during `DLL_PROCESS_DETACH`.

You use the `lpValueName` parameter of the [**RegQueryValueEx**](/windows/desktop/api/winreg/nf-winreg-regqueryvalueexa) function to indicate the information to retrieve. The following table lists the values you can specify for `lpValueName`. Note that the value strings are not case-sensitive.

|Value|Description
|-----|-----------
|`Global`| Retrieves performance data for all performance objects registered on the computer except for those included in the `Costly` category.
|`OLD_Global`| **Windows Vista and later:** Retrieves performance data for all **V1** performance objects registered on the computer except for those included in the `Costly` category. Use this instead of `Global` to avoid collecting unnecessary V2 provider data when you know that the data of interest comes from a V1 provider.
|`n1 n2 ...`| Retrieves performance data for one or more performance objects. Specify the decimal index associated with each object that you want to retrieve in a space-separated list. For example, if you want to retrieve System and Memory objects and you have determined that the indexes of the corresponding name strings are 2 and 4, specify the string `"2 4"`. Note that the query can return a different number of objects than you requested. This can happen if the specified object is unavailable, if the specified object depends on another object type, or if a provider otherwise returns data that was not directly requested. For example, threads depend on processes, so if you request data from the `Thread` object, the results will include data from the `Process` object.
|`Counter n`| Retrieves name strings for the specified language identifier, e.g. English for `Counter 9`. Use the returned name strings to find the index corresponding to a given name or to find the name corresponding to a given index. See [Retrieving Counter Names and Help Text](retrieving-counter-names-and-help-text.md) for details. Note that the returned list includes both object (counterset) names and counter names -- there is no simple way to determine whether a name is an object name or a counter name.
|`Help n`| Retrieves help strings for the specified language identifier, e.g. English for `Help 9`. Use the returned help strings to find descriptions corresponding to object (counterset) or counter help indexes. See [Retrieving Counter Names and Help Text](retrieving-counter-names-and-help-text.md) for details.
|`Costly`| **Deprecated:** Retrieves performance data for object types whose data is expensive to collect in terms of processor time or memory usage. This collection may take several minutes on a heavily-loaded machine. You should perform the collection on a worker thread if your application needs to respond to the user during this data collection.
|`MetadataGlobal`| **Windows 10 20H1 and later:** Retrieves *metadata* for all performance objects registered on the computer except for those included in the `Costly` category.
|`OLD_MetadataGlobal`| **Windows 10 20H1 and later:** Retrieves *metadata* for all **V1** performance objects registered on the computer except for those included in the `Costly` category.
|`MetadataCostly`| **Windows 10 20H1 and later:** Retrieves *metadata* for costly performance objects.
|`OLD_MetadataCostly`| **Windows 10 20H1 and later:** Retrieves *metadata* for costly **V1** performance objects.

For details on the format of the performance data that the registry returns, see [Performance Data Format](performance-data-format.md).

For an example that gets the names and descriptions of the registered counters on the computer, see [Retrieving Counter Names and Help Text](retrieving-counter-names-and-help-text.md).

For an example that accesses the components of the performance data, see [Displaying Object, Instance, and Counter Names](displaying-object-instance-and-counter-names.md).

For an example that retrieves, computes, and prints counter values, see [Retrieving Counter Data](retrieving-counter-data.md) and [Calculating Counter Values](calculating-counter-values.md).

## Metadata Collection

Windows 10 20H1 adds support for metadata-only collection operations. These operations are intended for use when making a list of the performance objects and counters that are available on a machine.

- Metadata-only collection can be faster than the corresponding full-data collection because it can skip collecting instance data from objects that support metadata-only collection.
- Metadata-only collection uses less memory than the corresponding full-data collection because it does not need space to return instance data from objects that support metadata-only collection.
- Metadata-only collection is more complete than the corresponding full-data collection because it returns the list of available counters even if there are no instances of objects that support metadata-only collection.

> [!TIP]
> Appropriate use of metadata-only collection is especially important when collecting data from servers with many processes or threads. A normal `Global` collection must collect and return information on each process and thread on the system, while `MetadataGlobal` collection does not need to collect process or thread information.

The [Performance Data Helper (PDH) functions](using-the-pdh-functions-to-consume-counter-data.md) automatically use metadata-only collection when determining the set of performance objects available on a machine.

Operating system support for metadata-only operations is indicated by a nonzero value in the `HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Perflib\Supports Metadata` registry value. If this value is not present or is set to `0`, use a full-data collection (e.g. `Global`) instead of a metadata-only collection (e.g. `MetadataGlobal`).

Not all performance objects support metadata-only collection. When you request a `MetadataGlobal` collection, Windows will check each performance object for metadata-only support (indicated by a nonzero value in the `HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\<ServiceName>\Performance\Collect Supports Metadata` registry value). If the performance object does not support metadata-only collection, Windows will perform a normal data collection from the object. If the performance object does support metadata-only collection, Windows will perform a metadata-only collection from the object. The data returned to you for a metadata-only query will then contain `PERF_OBJECT_TYPE` blocks from both full-data and metadata-only collection. The `PERF_OBJECT_TYPE` blocks may contain or omit instance information, depending on whether the block was collected from a provider that does or does not support metadata-only queries.

The data returned from a metadata-only collection is the same as the data from a normal collection except:

- The `NumInstances` field of the `PERF_OBJECT_TYPE` struct will be either `PERF_METADATA_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES` (indicating that the object supports 0 or more named instances) or `PERF_METADATA_NO_INSTANCES` (indicating that the object always has 1 unnamed instance).
- There will be no `PERF_INSTANCE_DEFINITION` blocks after the `PERF_OBJECT_TYPE` struct.
