---
Description: 'The WM\_PAINT message is sent when the system or another application makes a request to paint a portion of an application''s window.'
ms.assetid: 'afebaa07-cf00-47db-a919-46436f164881'
title: 'WM\_PAINT message'
---

# WM\_PAINT message

The **WM\_PAINT** message is sent when the system or another application makes a request to paint a portion of an application's window. The message is sent when the [**UpdateWindow**](updatewindow.md) or [**RedrawWindow**](redrawwindow.md) function is called, or by the [**DispatchMessage**](_win32_dispatchmessage_cpp) function when the application obtains a **WM\_PAINT** message by using the [**GetMessage**](_win32_getmessage_cpp) or [**PeekMessage**](_win32_peekmessage_cpp) function.

A window receives this message through its [**WindowProc**](_win32_windowproc_cpp) function.


```C++
LRESULT CALLBACK WindowProc(
  HWND hwnd, 
  UINT  uMsg, 
  WPARAM wParam, 
  LPARAM lParam     
);
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*wParam* 
</dt> <dd>

This parameter is not used.

</dd> <dt>

*lParam* 
</dt> <dd>

This parameter is not used.

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

An application returns zero if it processes this message.

## Remarks

The **WM\_PAINT** message is generated by the system and should not be sent by an application. To force a window to draw into a specific device context, use the [**WM\_PRINT**](wm-print.md) or [**WM\_PRINTCLIENT**](wm-printclient.md) message. Note that this requires the target window to support the **WM\_PRINTCLIENT** message. Most common controls support the **WM\_PRINTCLIENT** message.

The [**DefWindowProc**](_win32_defwindowproc_cpp) function validates the update region. The function may also send the [**WM\_NCPAINT**](wm-ncpaint.md) message to the window procedure if the window frame must be painted and send the [**WM\_ERASEBKGND**](_win32_wm_erasebkgnd_cpp) message if the window background must be erased.

The system sends this message when there are no other messages in the application's message queue. [**DispatchMessage**](_win32_dispatchmessage_cpp) determines where to send the message; [**GetMessage**](_win32_getmessage_cpp) determines which message to dispatch. **GetMessage** returns the **WM\_PAINT** message when there are no other messages in the application's message queue, and **DispatchMessage** sends the message to the appropriate window procedure.

A window may receive internal paint messages as a result of calling [**RedrawWindow**](redrawwindow.md) with the RDW\_INTERNALPAINT flag set. In this case, the window may not have an update region. An application may call the [**GetUpdateRect**](getupdaterect.md) function to determine whether the window has an update region. If **GetUpdateRect** returns zero, the application need not call the [**BeginPaint**](beginpaint.md) and [**EndPaint**](endpaint.md) functions.

An application must check for any necessary internal painting by looking at its internal data structures for each **WM\_PAINT** message, because a **WM\_PAINT** message may have been caused by both a non-NULL update region and a call to [**RedrawWindow**](redrawwindow.md) with the RDW\_INTERNALPAINT flag set.

The system sends an internal **WM\_PAINT** message only once. After an internal **WM\_PAINT** message is returned from [**GetMessage**](_win32_getmessage_cpp) or [**PeekMessage**](_win32_peekmessage_cpp) or is sent to a window by [**UpdateWindow**](updatewindow.md), the system does not post or send further **WM\_PAINT** messages until the window is invalidated or until [**RedrawWindow**](redrawwindow.md) is called again with the RDW\_INTERNALPAINT flag set.

For some common controls, the default **WM\_PAINT** message processing checks the *wParam* parameter. If *wParam* is non-NULL, the control assumes that the value is an HDC and paints using that device context.

## Requirements



|                                     |                                                                                                          |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minimum supported client<br/> | Windows 2000 Professional \[desktop apps only\]<br/>                                               |
| Minimum supported server<br/> | Windows 2000 Server \[desktop apps only\]<br/>                                                     |
| Header<br/>                   | <dl> <dt>Winuser.h (include Windows.h)</dt> </dl> |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[Painting and Drawing Overview](painting-and-drawing.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Painting and Drawing Messages](painting-and-drawing-messages.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**BeginPaint**](beginpaint.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**DefWindowProc**](_win32_defwindowproc_cpp)
</dt> <dt>

[**DispatchMessage**](_win32_dispatchmessage_cpp)
</dt> <dt>

[**EndPaint**](endpaint.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**GetMessage**](_win32_getmessage_cpp)
</dt> <dt>

[**GetUpdateRect**](getupdaterect.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**PeekMessage**](_win32_peekmessage_cpp)
</dt> <dt>

[**RedrawWindow**](redrawwindow.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**UpdateWindow**](updatewindow.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**WM\_ERASEBKGND**](_win32_wm_erasebkgnd_cpp)
</dt> <dt>

[**WM\_NCPAINT**](wm-ncpaint.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**WM\_PRINT**](wm-print.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**WM\_PRINTCLIENT**](wm-printclient.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 




