---
description: Validates the package against a set of requirements for installation in the per-user context.
ms.assetid: 892d55b9-7ef0-4b73-b11e-b3b845b363f7
title: ICE 105
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# ICE 105

Validates the package against a set of requirements for installation in the per-user context. ICE 105 can also validate dual-purpose packages. A dual-purpose package enables a user to select whether to install the application in the per-user context or per-machine context. For information about developing a dual-purpose package, see [Single Package Authoring](single-package-authoring.md).

ICE 105 performs the following validation of the package.

-   Checks that the [CustomAction](customaction-table.md) table contains no custom actions that have been marked to run with elevated privileges. For more information about elevated custom actions, see [Custom Action Security](custom-action-security.md).
-   Checks that the [Directory](directory-table.md) table does not include any of the following system folder properties.
    -   [**AdminToolsFolder**](admintoolsfolder.md)
    -   [**CommonAppDataFolder**](commonappdatafolder.md)
    -   [**FontsFolder**](fontsfolder.md)
    -   [**System16Folder**](system16folder.md)
    -   [**System64Folder**](system64folder.md)
    -   [**SystemFolder**](systemfolder.md)
    -   [**TempFolder**](tempfolder.md)
    -   [**WindowsFolder**](windowsfolder.md)
    -   [**WindowsVolume**](windowsvolume.md)
-   Verifies that the package does not install a common language runtime assembly to the global assembly cache (GAC.) For more information about installing assemblies to the global assembly cache, see [Adding Assemblies to a Package](adding-assemblies-to-a-package.md) and [Installation of Common Language Runtime Assemblies](installation-of-common-language-runtime-assemblies.md).
-   Checks the [ODBCDataSource](odbcdatasource-table.md) table to verify that the package does not install any data sources.
-   Checks the [ServiceInstall](serviceinstall-table.md) table to verify that the package does not install any services.
-   Checks that the [Registry](registry-table.md) table writes no entries under the **HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE** key.

**[Windows Installer 4.5 or earlier](not-supported-in-windows-installer-4-5.md):** Not supported. This ICE is available beginning with Windows Installer 5.0.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Single Package Authoring](single-package-authoring.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 



