desktop-src/Msi/installer-opendatabase.md, before:

---
description: The OpenDatabase method of the Installer object opens an existing database or creates a new one, returning a Database object. It generates an error if the Database object cannot be successfully created and opened.
ms.assetid: a77b3954-db27-41a0-8f8b-2654766bde6a
title: Installer.OpenDatabase method
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/31/2018
topic_type: 
- APIRef
- kbSyntax
api_name: 
- Installer.OpenDatabase
api_type: 
- COM
api_location: 
- Msi.dll
---

# Installer.OpenDatabase method

The **OpenDatabase** method of the [**Installer**](installer-object.md) object opens an existing database or creates a new one, returning a [**Database**](database-object.md) object. It generates an error if the **Database** object cannot be successfully created and opened.

## Syntax


```JScript
Installer.OpenDatabase(
  name,
  openMode
)
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*name* 
</dt> <dd>

Required string that contains the path name of the database. If an empty string is supplied, a temporary database is created that is not persisted.

</dd> <dt>

*openMode* 
</dt> <dd>

A parameter from the following list or a string that contains the path name of the new output database file that is to be written to upon commit.



| Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Meaning                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeReadOnly"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodereadonly"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODEREADONLY"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeReadOnly**</dt> <dt>0</dt> </dl>                 | Opens a database read-only, no persistent changes.<br/>                                                                                                           |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeTransact"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodetransact"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODETRANSACT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeTransact**</dt> <dt>1</dt> </dl>                 | Opens a database read/write in transaction mode.<br/>                                                                                                             |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodedirect"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODEDIRECT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect**</dt> <dt>2</dt> </dl>                         | Opens a database direct read/write without transaction.<br/>                                                                                                      |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeCreate"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodecreate"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODECREATE"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeCreate**</dt> <dt>3</dt> </dl>                         | Creates a new database, transact mode read/write.<br/>                                                                                                            |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodecreatedirect"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODECREATEDIRECT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect**</dt> <dt>4</dt> </dl> | Creates a new database, direct mode read/write.<br/>                                                                                                              |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeListScript"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodelistscript"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODELISTSCRIPT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeListScript**</dt> <dt>5</dt> </dl>         | Opens a database to view advertise script files, such as the files generated by the [**CreateAdvertiseScript**](installer-createadvertisescript.md) method.<br/> |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModePatchFile"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodepatchfile"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODEPATCHFILE"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModePatchFile**</dt> <dt>32</dt> </dl>            | Adds this flag to indicate a patch file.<br/>                                                                                                                     |



 

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

This method does not return a value.

## Remarks

When a database is opened as the output of another database, the summary information stream of the output database is actually a read-only mirror of the original database and thus cannot be changed. Additionally, it is not persisted with the database. To create or modify the summary information for the output database it must be closed and reopened.

To make and save changes to a database first open the database in transaction (msiOpenDatabaseModeTransact), create (msiOpenDatabaseModeCreate or msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect), or direct (msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect) mode. After making the changes, always call the [**Commit**](database-commit.md) method before closing the database handle. The **Commit** method flushes all buffers.

Always call the [**Commit**](database-commit.md) method on a database that has been opened in direct mode (msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect or msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect) before closing the database. Failure to do this may corrupt the database.

Because the **OpenDatabase** method initiates database access, it cannot be used with a running installation.

If the method fails, you can obtain extended error information by using the [**LastErrorRecord**](installer-lasterrorrecord.md) method.

## Requirements



| Requirement | Value |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Version<br/> | Windows Installer 5.0 on Windows Server 2012, Windows 8, Windows Server 2008 R2 or Windows 7. Windows Installer 4.0 or Windows Installer 4.5 on Windows Server 2008 or Windows Vista. Windows Installer on Windows Server 2003 or Windows XP<br/> |
| DLL<br/>     | <dl> <dt>Msi.dll</dt> </dl>                                                                                                                                                                      |
| IID<br/>     | IID\_IInstaller is defined as 000C1090-0000-0000-C000-000000000046<br/>                                                                                                                                                                           |

Commit message:

Invalid return value specified for OpenDatabase (#819)
* Invalid return value specified for OpenDatabase

In the description it says the method returns a Database object but in Return value it says it returns nothing.

Seems like multiple methods of the Installer object have the same issue. Missing return value.

* Edited return value description

* Minor edit

Co-authored-by: McLean Schofield <11544635+mcleanbyron@users.noreply.github.com>

desktop-src/Msi/installer-opendatabase.md, after:

---
description: The OpenDatabase method of the Installer object opens an existing database or creates a new one, returning a Database object. It generates an error if the Database object cannot be successfully created and opened.
ms.assetid: a77b3954-db27-41a0-8f8b-2654766bde6a
title: Installer.OpenDatabase method
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/31/2018
topic_type: 
- APIRef
- kbSyntax
api_name: 
- Installer.OpenDatabase
api_type: 
- COM
api_location: 
- Msi.dll
---

# Installer.OpenDatabase method

The **OpenDatabase** method of the [**Installer**](installer-object.md) object opens an existing database or creates a new one, returning a [**Database**](database-object.md) object. It generates an error if the **Database** object cannot be successfully created and opened.

## Syntax


```JScript
Installer.OpenDatabase(
  name,
  openMode
)
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*name* 
</dt> <dd>

Required string that contains the path name of the database. If an empty string is supplied, a temporary database is created that is not persisted.

</dd> <dt>

*openMode* 
</dt> <dd>

A parameter from the following list or a string that contains the path name of the new output database file that is to be written to upon commit.



| Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Meaning                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeReadOnly"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodereadonly"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODEREADONLY"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeReadOnly**</dt> <dt>0</dt> </dl>                 | Opens a database read-only, no persistent changes.<br/>                                                                                                           |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeTransact"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodetransact"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODETRANSACT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeTransact**</dt> <dt>1</dt> </dl>                 | Opens a database read/write in transaction mode.<br/>                                                                                                             |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodedirect"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODEDIRECT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect**</dt> <dt>2</dt> </dl>                         | Opens a database direct read/write without transaction.<br/>                                                                                                      |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeCreate"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodecreate"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODECREATE"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeCreate**</dt> <dt>3</dt> </dl>                         | Creates a new database, transact mode read/write.<br/>                                                                                                            |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodecreatedirect"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODECREATEDIRECT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect**</dt> <dt>4</dt> </dl> | Creates a new database, direct mode read/write.<br/>                                                                                                              |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModeListScript"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodelistscript"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODELISTSCRIPT"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModeListScript**</dt> <dt>5</dt> </dl>         | Opens a database to view advertise script files, such as the files generated by the [**CreateAdvertiseScript**](installer-createadvertisescript.md) method.<br/> |
| <span id="msiOpenDatabaseModePatchFile"></span><span id="msiopendatabasemodepatchfile"></span><span id="MSIOPENDATABASEMODEPATCHFILE"></span><dl> <dt>**msiOpenDatabaseModePatchFile**</dt> <dt>32</dt> </dl>            | Adds this flag to indicate a patch file.<br/>                                                                                                                     |



 

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

A [**Database**](database-object.md) object that represents the existing or new installer database that was opened.

## Remarks

When a database is opened as the output of another database, the summary information stream of the output database is actually a read-only mirror of the original database and thus cannot be changed. Additionally, it is not persisted with the database. To create or modify the summary information for the output database it must be closed and reopened.

To make and save changes to a database first open the database in transaction (msiOpenDatabaseModeTransact), create (msiOpenDatabaseModeCreate or msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect), or direct (msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect) mode. After making the changes, always call the [**Commit**](database-commit.md) method before closing the database handle. The **Commit** method flushes all buffers.

Always call the [**Commit**](database-commit.md) method on a database that has been opened in direct mode (msiOpenDatabaseModeDirect or msiOpenDatabaseModeCreateDirect) before closing the database. Failure to do this may corrupt the database.

Because the **OpenDatabase** method initiates database access, it cannot be used with a running installation.

If the method fails, you can obtain extended error information by using the [**LastErrorRecord**](installer-lasterrorrecord.md) method.

## Requirements



| Requirement | Value |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Version<br/> | Windows Installer 5.0 on Windows Server 2012, Windows 8, Windows Server 2008 R2 or Windows 7. Windows Installer 4.0 or Windows Installer 4.5 on Windows Server 2008 or Windows Vista. Windows Installer on Windows Server 2003 or Windows XP<br/> |
| DLL<br/>     | <dl> <dt>Msi.dll</dt> </dl>                                                                                                                                                                      |
| IID<br/>     | IID\_IInstaller is defined as 000C1090-0000-0000-C000-000000000046<br/>                                                                                                                                                                           |
