desktop-src/Msi/orca-exe.md, before:

---
description: Orca.exe is a database table editor for creating and editing Windows Installer packages and merge modules.
ms.assetid: 4dddc262-1271-4e00-a986-53380b957b17
title: Orca.exe
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/10/2021
---

# Orca.exe

Orca.exe is a database table editor for creating and editing Windows Installer packages and merge modules. The tool provides a graphical interface for validation, highlighting the particular entries where validation errors or warnings occur.

This tool is only available in the [Windows SDK Components for Windows Installer Developers](platform-sdk-components-for-windows-installer-developers.md). It is provided as an Orca.msi file. After installing the Windows SDK Components for Windows Installer Developers, double click Orca.msi to install the Orca.exe file.

## Syntax

**orca** *\[\<options>\]\[\<source file>\]*

## Command Line Options

Orca.exe uses the following case-insensitive command line options. A slash delimiter may also be used in place of a dash.



| Option | Description                                                 |
|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| -q     | Quiet mode                                                  |
| -s     | <*database*> Schema database \["orca.dat" - default\] |
| -?     | Help dialog                                                 |



 

Orca.exe uses the following case-insensitive command line options with merge modules. A slash delimiter may also be used in place of a dash. When performing a merge the -f, -m and <*sourcefile*> are all required.



| Option     | Description                                                                |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| -c         | Commit merge to database if no errors.                                     |
| -!         | Commit merge to a database even if there are errors.                       |
| -m         | <*module*> Merge Module to merge into database.                      |
| -f         | Feature\[:Feature2\] Feature(s) to connect to Merge Module.                |
| -r         | <*directory id*> Directory entry for the module root redirection.    |
| -x         | <*directory*> Extract files to an image under the directory.         |
| -g         | <*language*> Language used to open a module.                         |
| -l         | <*log file*> File to use as a log, append if it already exists.      |
| -i         | <*directory*> Extract files to the source image under the directory. |
| -cab       | <*filename*> Extract the MSM cabinet to file.                        |
| -lfn       | Use Long File Names during the extraction.                                 |
| -configure | <*filename*> Configure the module using data from a file.            |


## Remarks

If Orca displays the error message “The validation engine could not start” and the application event ID is 1044, view [Event Logging (Windows Installer)](event-logging.md) for a detailed event message.
 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Windows Installer Development Tools](windows-installer-development-tools.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Released Versions, Tools, and Redistributables](released-versions-tools-and-redistributables.md)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

Installation source is listed incorrectly (#1357)
The help document for this page names the installation source for orca.exe by an old name, orca.msi.  Current versions of the SDK source have changed the installation package name.  This makes installation more difficult as it is harder to locate.

Update the document to report a suggested name or the localized naming convention used to help developers locate the installer.

desktop-src/Msi/orca-exe.md, after:

---
description: Orca.exe is a database table editor for creating and editing Windows Installer packages and merge modules.
ms.assetid: 4dddc262-1271-4e00-a986-53380b957b17
title: Orca.exe
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/10/2021
---

# Orca.exe

Orca.exe is a database table editor for creating and editing Windows Installer packages and merge modules. The tool provides a graphical interface for validation, highlighting the particular entries where validation errors or warnings occur.

## Installation

This tool is only available in the [Windows SDK Components for Windows Installer Developers](platform-sdk-components-for-windows-installer-developers.md). It is provided as an msi installation file in a sub directory of *bin* under the installed Windows Kits. The installer name may be localized, such as `Orca-x86_en-us.msi`. After installing the Windows SDK Components for Windows Installer Developers, double click the msi file to install Orca.exe.

## Syntax

**orca** *\[\<options>\]\[\<source file>\]*

## Command Line Options

Orca.exe uses the following case-insensitive command line options. A slash delimiter may also be used in place of a dash.



| Option | Description                                                 |
|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| -q     | Quiet mode                                                  |
| -s     | <*database*> Schema database \["orca.dat" - default\] |
| -?     | Help dialog                                                 |



 

Orca.exe uses the following case-insensitive command line options with merge modules. A slash delimiter may also be used in place of a dash. When performing a merge the -f, -m and <*sourcefile*> are all required.



| Option     | Description                                                                |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| -c         | Commit merge to database if no errors.                                     |
| -!         | Commit merge to a database even if there are errors.                       |
| -m         | <*module*> Merge Module to merge into database.                      |
| -f         | Feature\[:Feature2\] Feature(s) to connect to Merge Module.                |
| -r         | <*directory id*> Directory entry for the module root redirection.    |
| -x         | <*directory*> Extract files to an image under the directory.         |
| -g         | <*language*> Language used to open a module.                         |
| -l         | <*log file*> File to use as a log, append if it already exists.      |
| -i         | <*directory*> Extract files to the source image under the directory. |
| -cab       | <*filename*> Extract the MSM cabinet to file.                        |
| -lfn       | Use Long File Names during the extraction.                                 |
| -configure | <*filename*> Configure the module using data from a file.            |


## Remarks

If Orca displays the error message “The validation engine could not start” and the application event ID is 1044, view [Event Logging (Windows Installer)](event-logging.md) for a detailed event message.
 

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[Windows Installer Development Tools](windows-installer-development-tools.md)
</dt> <dt>

[Released Versions, Tools, and Redistributables](released-versions-tools-and-redistributables.md)
</dt> </dl>
