---
title: JournalRecordProc callback function (Windows)
TOCTitle: JournalRecordProc callback function
ms:assetid: VS|winui|~\winui\windowsuserinterface\windowing\hooks\hookreference\hookfunctions\journalrecordproc.htm
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms644983(v=VS.85)
ms:contentKeyID: 5641714
ms.date: 03/30/2018
mtps_version: v=VS.85
f1_keywords:
- JournalRecordProc
- HC_SYSMODALON
- HC_SYSMODALOFF
- HC_ACTION
- winuser/JournalRecordProc
dev_langs:
- C++
- C
api_location:
- Winuser.h
api_name:
- JournalRecordProc
api_type:
- UserDefined
product:
- Windows
topic_type:
- apiref
- kbSyntax
product_family_name: VS
ROBOTS: INDEX,FOLLOW
---

# JournalRecordProc callback function

> [!WARNING]  
> Journaling Hooks APIs are unsupported starting in Windows 11 and will be removed in a future release. Because of this, we highly recommend calling the [**SendInput**](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-sendinput) TextInput API instead.

An application-defined or library-defined callback function used with the [**SetWindowsHookExA**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowshookexa)/[**SetWindowsHookExW**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowshookexw) function. The function records messages the system removes from the system message queue. Later, an application can use a [*JournalPlaybackProc*](ms644982\(v=vs.85\).md) hook procedure to play back the messages.

The **HOOKPROC** type defines a pointer to this callback function. *JournalRecordProc* is a placeholder for the application-defined or library-defined function name.

## Syntax

``` c++
LRESULT CALLBACK JournalRecordProc(
  _In_ int    code,
       WPARAM wParam,
  _In_ LPARAM lParam
);
```

## Parameters

  - *code* \[in\]  
    Type: **int**
    
    Specifies how to process the message. If *code* is less than zero, the hook procedure must pass the message to the [**CallNextHookEx**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-callnexthookex) function without further processing and should return the value returned by **CallNextHookEx**. This parameter can be one of the following values.
    
    <table>
    <colgroup>
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    </colgroup>
    <thead>
    <tr class="header">
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Meaning</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><span id="HC_ACTION"></span><span id="hc_action"></span>
    <strong>HC_ACTION</strong>
    0</td>
    <td><p>The <em>lParam</em> parameter is a pointer to an <a href="/windows/win32/api/winuser/ns-winuser-eventmsg"><strong>EVENTMSG</strong></a> structure containing information about a message removed from the system queue. The hook procedure must record the contents of the structure by copying them to a buffer or file.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
    <td><span id="HC_SYSMODALOFF"></span><span id="hc_sysmodaloff"></span>
    <strong>HC_SYSMODALOFF</strong>
    5</td>
    <td><p>A system-modal dialog box has been destroyed. The hook procedure must resume recording.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><span id="HC_SYSMODALON"></span><span id="hc_sysmodalon"></span>
    <strong>HC_SYSMODALON</strong>
    4</td>
    <td><p>A system-modal dialog box is being displayed. Until the dialog box is destroyed, the hook procedure must stop recording.</p></td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
    </table>
    
     

  - *wParam*  
    Type: **WPARAM**
    
    This parameter is not used.

  - *lParam* \[in\]  
    Type: **LPARAM**
    
    A pointer to an [**EVENTMSG**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/ns-winuser-eventmsg) structure that contains the message to be recorded.

## Return value

Type: ****

Type: LRESULT

The return value is ignored.

## Remarks

A *JournalRecordProc* hook procedure must copy but not modify the messages. After the hook procedure returns control to the system, the message continues to be processed.

Install the *JournalRecordProc* hook procedure by specifying the [**WH\_JOURNALRECORD**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms644959\(v=vs.85\)) type and a pointer to the hook procedure in a call to the [**SetWindowsHookExA**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowshookexa)/[**SetWindowsHookExW**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowshookexw) function.

A *JournalRecordProc* hook procedure does not need to live in a dynamic-link library. A *JournalRecordProc* hook procedure can live in the application itself.

Unlike most other global hook procedures, the *JournalRecordProc* and [**JournalPlaybackProc**](ms644982\(v=vs.85\).md) hook procedures are always called in the context of the thread that set the hook.

An application that has installed a *JournalRecordProc* hook procedure should watch for the [**VK\_CANCEL**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd375731\(v=vs.85\)) virtual key code (which is implemented as the CTRL+BREAK key combination on most keyboards). This virtual key code should be interpreted by the application as a signal that the user wishes to stop journal recording. The application should respond by ending the recording sequence and removing the *JournalRecordProc* hook procedure. Removal is important. It prevents a journaling application from locking up the system by hanging inside a hook procedure.

This role as a signal to stop journal recording means that a CTRL+BREAK key combination cannot itself be recorded. Since the CTRL+C key combination has no such role as a journaling signal, it can be recorded. There are two other key combinations that cannot be recorded: CTRL+ESC and CTRL+ALT+DEL. Those two key combinations cause the system to stop all journaling activities (record or playback), remove all journaling hooks, and post a [WM_CANCELJOURNAL](wm-canceljournal.md) message to the journaling application.

## Requirements

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Minimum supported client</p></td>
<td><p>Windows 2000 Professional [desktop apps only]</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Minimum supported server</p></td>
<td><p>Windows 2000 Server [desktop apps only]</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Header</p></td>
<td>Winuser.h (include Windows.h)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## See also

**Reference**

[**CallNextHookEx**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-callnexthookex)

[**EVENTMSG**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/ns-winuser-eventmsg)

[*JournalPlaybackProc*](ms644982\(v=vs.85\).md)

[**SetWindowsHookExA**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowshookexa)/[**SetWindowsHookExW**](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowshookexw)

[WM_CANCELJOURNAL message](wm-canceljournal.md)

**Conceptual**

[Hooks](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms632589\(v=vs.85\))