desktop-src/menurc/resource-definition-statements.md, before:

---
title: Resource-Definition Statements
description: The resource-definition statements define the resources that the resource compiler puts in the resource (.Res) file.
ms.assetid: f96b8c1e-8188-40b7-8eda-c13b61b8fc41
keywords:
- resource compiler,resource-definition statements
- TEXTINCLUDE resource
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Resource-Definition Statements

The resource-definition statements define the resources that the resource compiler puts in the resource (.Res) file. After the .Res file is linked to the executable file, the application can load its resources at run time as needed. All resource statements associate an identifying name or number with a given resource.

The resource-definition statements can be divided into the following categories:

-   Resources
-   Controls
-   Statements

The following tables describe the resource-definition statements.

## Resources



| Resource                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [**ACCELERATORS**](accelerators-resource.md) | Defines menu accelerator keys.                                                                                                                                                  |
| [**BITMAP**](bitmap-resource.md)             | Defines a bitmap by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. (To use a particular bitmap, the application requests it by name.)                          |
| [**CURSOR**](cursor-resource.md)             | Defines a cursor or animated cursor by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. (To use a particular cursor, the application requests it by name.)       |
| [**DIALOG**](dialog-resource.md)             | Defines a template that an application can use to create dialog boxes.                                                                                                          |
| [**DIALOGEX**](dialogex-resource.md)         | Defines a template that an application can use to create dialog boxes.                                                                                                          |
| [**FONT**](font-resource.md)                 | Specifies the name of a file that contains a font.                                                                                                                              |
| [**HTML**](html-resource.md)                 | Specifies an HTML file.                                                                                                                                                         |
| [**ICON**](icon-resource.md)                 | Defines an icon or animated icon by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. (To use a particular icon, the application requests it by name.)            |
| [**MENU**](menu-resource.md)                 | Defines the appearance and function of a menu.                                                                                                                                  |
| [**MENUEX**](menuex-resource.md)             | Defines the appearance and function of a menu.                                                                                                                                  |
| [**MESSAGETABLE**](messagetable-resource.md) | Defines a message table by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. The file is a binary resource file generated by the message compiler.                |
| [**POPUP**](popup-resource.md)               | Defines a menu item that can contain menu items and submenus.                                                                                                                   |
| **PLUGPLAY**                                  | Obsolete.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| [**RCDATA**](rcdata-resource.md)             | Defines data resources. Data resources let you include binary data in the executable file.                                                                                      |
| [**STRINGTABLE**](stringtable-resource.md)   | Defines string resources. String resources are Unicode or ASCII strings that can be loaded from the executable file.                                                            |
| **TEXTINCLUDE**                               | A special resource that is interpreted by Visual C++. For more information, see [TN035](/cpp/mfc/tn035-using-multiple-resource-files-and-header-files-with-visual-cpp).                                        |
| **TYPELIB**                                   | A special resource that is used with the [/TLBID](/cpp/build/reference/tlbid-specify-resource-id-for-typelib) and [/TLBOUT](/cpp/build/reference/tlbout-name-dot-tlb-file) linker options. |
| [**User-Defined**](user-defined-resource.md) | Defines a resource that contains application-specific data.                                                                                                                     |
| [**VERSIONINFO**](versioninfo-resource.md)   | Defines a version-information resource. Contains information such as the version number, intended operating system, and so on.                                                  |
| **VXD**                                       | Obsolete.                                                                                                                                                                       |



 

For more information about predefined MFC resources, see [TN023](/cpp/mfc/tn023-standard-mfc-resources) and [TN024](/cpp/mfc/tn024-mfc-defined-messages-and-resources).

## Controls



| Control                                            | Description                                                                 |
|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [**AUTO3STATE**](auto3state-control.md)           | Creates an automatic three-state check box control.                         |
| [**AUTOCHECKBOX**](autocheckbox-control.md)       | Creates an automatic check box control.                                     |
| [**AUTORADIOBUTTON**](autoradiobutton-control.md) | Creates an automatic radio button control.                                  |
| [**CHECKBOX**](checkbox-control.md)               | Creates a check box control.                                                |
| [**COMBOBOX**](combobox-control.md)               | Creates a combo box control.                                                |
| [**CONTROL**](control-control.md)                 | Creates an application-defined control.                                     |
| [**CTEXT**](ctext-control.md)                     | Creates a centered-text control.                                            |
| [**DEFPUSHBUTTON**](defpushbutton-control.md)     | Creates a default pushbutton control.                                       |
| [**EDITTEXT**](edittext-control.md)               | Creates an edit control.                                                    |
| [**GROUPBOX**](groupbox-control.md)               | Creates a group box control.                                                |
| [**ICON**](icon-control.md)                       | Creates an icon control. This control is an icon displayed in a dialog box. |
| [**LISTBOX**](listbox-control.md)                 | Creates a list box control.                                                 |
| [**LTEXT**](ltext-control.md)                     | Creates a left-aligned text control.                                        |
| [**PUSHBOX**](pushbox-control.md)                 | Creates a push box control.                                                 |
| [**PUSHBUTTON**](pushbutton-control.md)           | Creates a push button control.                                              |
| [**RADIOBUTTON**](radiobutton-control.md)         | Creates a radio button control.                                             |
| [**RTEXT**](rtext-control.md)                     | Creates a right-aligned control.                                            |
| [**SCROLLBAR**](scrollbar-control.md)             | Creates a scroll bar control.                                               |
| [**STATE3**](state3-control.md)                   | Creates a three-state check box control.                                    |



 

## Statements



| Statement                                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [**CAPTION**](caption-statement.md)                 | Sets the title for a dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| [**CHARACTERISTICS**](characteristics-statement.md) | Specifies information about a resource that can be used by tool that can read or write resource-definition files.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**CLASS**](class-statement.md)                     | Sets the class of the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**EXSTYLE**](exstyle-statement.md)                 | Sets the extended window style of the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**FONT**](font-statement.md)                       | Sets the font with which the system will draw text for the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| [**LANGUAGE**](language-statement.md)               | Sets the language for all resources up to the next [**LANGUAGE**](language-statement.md) statement or to the end of the file. When the **LANGUAGE** statement appears before the beginning of the body of an [**ACCELERATORS**](accelerators-resource.md), [**DIALOG**](dialog-resource.md), [**MENU**](menu-resource.md), [**RCDATA**](rcdata-resource.md), or [**STRINGTABLE**](stringtable-resource.md) resource definition, the specified language applies only to that resource. |
| [**MENU**](menu-statement.md)                       | Sets the menu for the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**MENUITEM**](menuitem-statement.md)               | Defines a menu item.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| [**STYLE**](style-statement.md)                     | Sets the window style for the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| [**VERSION**](version-statement.md)                 | Specifies version information for a resource that can be used by tool that can read or write resource-definition files.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

Commit message:

menurc: Make it clear that VERSION and CHARACTERISTICS can be top-level statements like LANGUAGE
A file like:

    1 RCDATA {}

    VERSION 100
    CHARACTERISTICS 101

    2 RCDATA {}

will compile into a .res where the RCDATA resource with id 2 will have its version and characteristics fields set to 100 and 101, respectively

desktop-src/menurc/resource-definition-statements.md, after:

---
title: Resource-Definition Statements
description: The resource-definition statements define the resources that the resource compiler puts in the resource (.Res) file.
ms.assetid: f96b8c1e-8188-40b7-8eda-c13b61b8fc41
keywords:
- resource compiler,resource-definition statements
- TEXTINCLUDE resource
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Resource-Definition Statements

The resource-definition statements define the resources that the resource compiler puts in the resource (.Res) file. After the .Res file is linked to the executable file, the application can load its resources at run time as needed. All resource statements associate an identifying name or number with a given resource.

The resource-definition statements can be divided into the following categories:

-   Resources
-   Controls
-   Statements

The following tables describe the resource-definition statements.

## Resources



| Resource                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [**ACCELERATORS**](accelerators-resource.md) | Defines menu accelerator keys.                                                                                                                                                  |
| [**BITMAP**](bitmap-resource.md)             | Defines a bitmap by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. (To use a particular bitmap, the application requests it by name.)                          |
| [**CURSOR**](cursor-resource.md)             | Defines a cursor or animated cursor by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. (To use a particular cursor, the application requests it by name.)       |
| [**DIALOG**](dialog-resource.md)             | Defines a template that an application can use to create dialog boxes.                                                                                                          |
| [**DIALOGEX**](dialogex-resource.md)         | Defines a template that an application can use to create dialog boxes.                                                                                                          |
| [**FONT**](font-resource.md)                 | Specifies the name of a file that contains a font.                                                                                                                              |
| [**HTML**](html-resource.md)                 | Specifies an HTML file.                                                                                                                                                         |
| [**ICON**](icon-resource.md)                 | Defines an icon or animated icon by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. (To use a particular icon, the application requests it by name.)            |
| [**MENU**](menu-resource.md)                 | Defines the appearance and function of a menu.                                                                                                                                  |
| [**MENUEX**](menuex-resource.md)             | Defines the appearance and function of a menu.                                                                                                                                  |
| [**MESSAGETABLE**](messagetable-resource.md) | Defines a message table by naming it and specifying the name of the file that contains it. The file is a binary resource file generated by the message compiler.                |
| [**POPUP**](popup-resource.md)               | Defines a menu item that can contain menu items and submenus.                                                                                                                   |
| **PLUGPLAY**                                  | Obsolete.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| [**RCDATA**](rcdata-resource.md)             | Defines data resources. Data resources let you include binary data in the executable file.                                                                                      |
| [**STRINGTABLE**](stringtable-resource.md)   | Defines string resources. String resources are Unicode or ASCII strings that can be loaded from the executable file.                                                            |
| **TEXTINCLUDE**                               | A special resource that is interpreted by Visual C++. For more information, see [TN035](/cpp/mfc/tn035-using-multiple-resource-files-and-header-files-with-visual-cpp).                                        |
| **TYPELIB**                                   | A special resource that is used with the [/TLBID](/cpp/build/reference/tlbid-specify-resource-id-for-typelib) and [/TLBOUT](/cpp/build/reference/tlbout-name-dot-tlb-file) linker options. |
| [**User-Defined**](user-defined-resource.md) | Defines a resource that contains application-specific data.                                                                                                                     |
| [**VERSIONINFO**](versioninfo-resource.md)   | Defines a version-information resource. Contains information such as the version number, intended operating system, and so on.                                                  |
| **VXD**                                       | Obsolete.                                                                                                                                                                       |



 

For more information about predefined MFC resources, see [TN023](/cpp/mfc/tn023-standard-mfc-resources) and [TN024](/cpp/mfc/tn024-mfc-defined-messages-and-resources).

## Controls



| Control                                            | Description                                                                 |
|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [**AUTO3STATE**](auto3state-control.md)           | Creates an automatic three-state check box control.                         |
| [**AUTOCHECKBOX**](autocheckbox-control.md)       | Creates an automatic check box control.                                     |
| [**AUTORADIOBUTTON**](autoradiobutton-control.md) | Creates an automatic radio button control.                                  |
| [**CHECKBOX**](checkbox-control.md)               | Creates a check box control.                                                |
| [**COMBOBOX**](combobox-control.md)               | Creates a combo box control.                                                |
| [**CONTROL**](control-control.md)                 | Creates an application-defined control.                                     |
| [**CTEXT**](ctext-control.md)                     | Creates a centered-text control.                                            |
| [**DEFPUSHBUTTON**](defpushbutton-control.md)     | Creates a default pushbutton control.                                       |
| [**EDITTEXT**](edittext-control.md)               | Creates an edit control.                                                    |
| [**GROUPBOX**](groupbox-control.md)               | Creates a group box control.                                                |
| [**ICON**](icon-control.md)                       | Creates an icon control. This control is an icon displayed in a dialog box. |
| [**LISTBOX**](listbox-control.md)                 | Creates a list box control.                                                 |
| [**LTEXT**](ltext-control.md)                     | Creates a left-aligned text control.                                        |
| [**PUSHBOX**](pushbox-control.md)                 | Creates a push box control.                                                 |
| [**PUSHBUTTON**](pushbutton-control.md)           | Creates a push button control.                                              |
| [**RADIOBUTTON**](radiobutton-control.md)         | Creates a radio button control.                                             |
| [**RTEXT**](rtext-control.md)                     | Creates a right-aligned control.                                            |
| [**SCROLLBAR**](scrollbar-control.md)             | Creates a scroll bar control.                                               |
| [**STATE3**](state3-control.md)                   | Creates a three-state check box control.                                    |



 

## Statements



| Statement                                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [**CAPTION**](caption-statement.md)                 | Sets the title for a dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| [**CHARACTERISTICS**](characteristics-statement.md) | Specifies information about a resource that can be used by tools that can read or write resource-definition files. Sets the characteristics for all resources up to the next [**CHARACTERISTICS**](characteristics-statement.md) statement or to the end of the file. When the **CHARACTERISTICS** statement appears before the beginning of the body of an [**ACCELERATORS**](accelerators-resource.md), [**DIALOG**](dialog-resource.md), [**MENU**](menu-resource.md), [**RCDATA**](rcdata-resource.md), or [**STRINGTABLE**](stringtable-resource.md) resource definition, the specified characteristics apply only to that resource. |
| [**CLASS**](class-statement.md)                     | Sets the class of the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**EXSTYLE**](exstyle-statement.md)                 | Sets the extended window style of the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**FONT**](font-statement.md)                       | Sets the font with which the system will draw text for the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| [**LANGUAGE**](language-statement.md)               | Sets the language for all resources up to the next [**LANGUAGE**](language-statement.md) statement or to the end of the file. When the **LANGUAGE** statement appears before the beginning of the body of an [**ACCELERATORS**](accelerators-resource.md), [**DIALOG**](dialog-resource.md), [**MENU**](menu-resource.md), [**RCDATA**](rcdata-resource.md), or [**STRINGTABLE**](stringtable-resource.md) resource definition, the specified language applies only to that resource. |
| [**MENU**](menu-statement.md)                       | Sets the menu for the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**MENUITEM**](menuitem-statement.md)               | Defines a menu item.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| [**STYLE**](style-statement.md)                     | Sets the window style for the dialog box.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| [**VERSION**](version-statement.md)                 | Specifies version information for a resource that can be used by tools that can read or write resource-definition files. Sets the version for all resources up to the next [**VERSION**](version-statement.md) statement or to the end of the file. When the **VERSION** statement appears before the beginning of the body of an [**ACCELERATORS**](accelerators-resource.md), [**DIALOG**](dialog-resource.md), [**MENU**](menu-resource.md), [**RCDATA**](rcdata-resource.md), or [**STRINGTABLE**](stringtable-resource.md) resource definition, the specified version applies only to that resource. |
