---
title: Unregistering a Device
description: Use the IUPnPRegistrar UnregisterDevice method to unregister a device.
ms.assetid: 4f7624e3-4d60-406d-8521-1dfc9aee4408
ms.date: 05/31/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: desktop
---

# Unregistering a Device

Use the [**IUPnPRegistrar::UnregisterDevice**](/windows/win32/Upnphost/nf-upnphost-iupnpregistrar-unregisterdevice?branch=master) method to unregister a device. The device can be unregistered (removed from the device host) temporarily or permanently, depending on the value of *fPermanent*. Developers should remove devices temporarily if the devices will be re-registered, and the devices should use the same UDN. Otherwise, the devices are removed permanently.

The GUID used to unregister is not the UDN. You must use the ID returned to you by [**IUPnPRegistrar::RegisterDevice**](/windows/win32/Upnphost/nf-upnphost-iupnpregistrar-registerdevice?branch=master) or [**IUPnPRegistrar::RegisterRunningDevice**](/windows/win32/Upnphost/nf-upnphost-iupnpregistrar-registerrunningdevice?branch=master).

> [!Note]  
> You can release the [**IUPnPRegistrar**](/windows/win32/Upnphost/nn-upnphost-iupnpregistrar?branch=master) object. Only the ID must be cached.

 

If *fPermanent* is **FALSE**, the device is removed temporarily. Use [**IUPnPReregistrar**](/windows/win32/Upnphost/nn-upnphost-iupnpreregistrar?branch=master) interface to re-register the device. The [**IUPnPReregistrar::ReregisterDevice**](/windows/win32/Upnphost/nf-upnphost-iupnpreregistrar-reregisterdevice?branch=master) and [**IUPnPReregistrar::ReregisterRunningDevice**](/windows/win32/Upnphost/nf-upnphost-iupnpreregistrar-reregisterrunningdevice?branch=master) methods use the same UDN or UDNs, in the case of nested devices, previously generated by the device host for the unregistered device.

If *fPermanent* is **TRUE**, the device is permanently removed from the device host. Registering this device again on the same computer creates a different UDN than the one previously created.

> [!Note]  
> When a device is registered multiple times on the same computer, the device host generates different UDNs for each instance of the device.

 

 

 




