---
title: HW\_MESSAGE\_SIGNALED\_INTERRUPT\_ROUTINE routine
description: The HwMSInterruptRoutine routine handles a message signaled interrupt (MSI).
ms.assetid: d8e90489-c847-48e7-89c4-f7a397a8de14
keywords:
- HwMSInterruptRoutine routine Storage Devices
- HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- HwMSInterruptRoutine
api_location:
- Storport.h
api_type:
- UserDefined
ms.technology: desktop
ms.prod: windows
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# HW\_MESSAGE\_SIGNALED\_INTERRUPT\_ROUTINE routine

The **HwMSInterruptRoutine** routine handles a message signaled interrupt (MSI).

## Syntax


```C++
HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE HwMSInterruptRoutine;

BOOLEAN HwMSInterruptRoutine(
   IN PVOID HwDeviceExtension,
   IN ULONG MessageID
)
{ ... }
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*HwDeviceExtension* 
</dt> <dd>

A pointer to the hardware device extension for the host bus adapter (HBA).

</dd> <dt>

*MessageID* 
</dt> <dd>

The identifier of the message.

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

**HwMSInterruptRoutine** returns **TRUE** if it determines that the HBA generated the MSI. If the HBA did not generate the MSI, **HwMSInterruptRoutine** returns **FALSE**.

## Remarks

A miniport driver's **HwMSInterruptRoutine** routine processes message signaled interrupts (MSIs) that are generated by the HBA. A miniport driver indicates that its HBA generates MSIs by setting the **HwMSInterruptRoutine** member of the [**PORT\_CONFIGURATION\_INFORMATION**](port-configuration-information--storport-.md) structure to point to the **HwMSInterruptRoutine** routine. If the HBA does not generate MSIs, a miniport driver should set **HwMSInterruptRoutine** to **NULL**.

If the **InterruptSynchronizationMode** member of the [**PORT\_CONFIGURATION\_INFORMATION**](port-configuration-information--storport-.md) structure is set to **InterruptSynchronizeAll**, the Storport driver synchronizes all MSIs that originate with the adapter it manages or the devices connected to the adapter. When an interrupt occurs, the Storport driver calls the miniport driver's **HwMSInterruptRoutine** routine at DIRQL after acquiring the interrupt spin lock.

If the **InterruptSynchronizationMode** member of the [**PORT\_CONFIGURATION\_INFORMATION**](port-configuration-information--storport-.md) structure is set to **InterruptSynchronizePerMessage**, the Storport driver calls the miniport driver's **HwMSInterruptRoutine** routine at IRQL = DIRQL, holding the interrupt spin lock that corresponds to the message identifier (ID) indicated in the **MessageID** parameter. The HBA can interrupt the **HwMSInterruptRoutine** routine for interrupts for other message IDs, so the Storport driver might make nested calls to **HwMSInterruptRoutine**, or run different instances of **HwMSInterruptRoutine** simultaneously on different processors. To synchronize access to sensitive data by different instances of **HwMSInterruptRoutine**, the miniport must call the [**StorPortAcquireMSISpinLock**](storportacquiremsispinlock.md) and [**StorPortReleaseMSISpinLock**](storportreleasemsispinlock.md) routines to acquire and release the spin locks for message IDs other than the ID in **MessageID**.

A miniport driver can retrieve additional information about the message by calling the [**StorPortGetMSIInfo**](storportgetmsiinfo.md) routine. It should not call the **StorPortGetMSIInfo** routine from inside the **HwMSInterruptRoutine** routine.

The name **HwMSInterruptRoutine** is just a placeholder. The actual prototype for this routine is defined in *Storport.h* as follows:


```
typedef
BOOLEAN
  HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE (
    _In_ PVOID  HwDeviceExtension,
    _In_ ULONG  MessageId
    );
```



## Examples

To define an **HwMSInterruptRoutine** callback function, you must first provide a function declaration that identifies the type of callback function you re defining. Windows provides a set of callback function types for drivers. Declaring a function using the callback function types helps [Code Analysis for Drivers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh454182), [Static Driver Verifier](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff552808) (SDV), and other verification tools find errors, and it s a requirement for writing drivers for the Windows operating system.

For example, to define a **HwMSInterruptRoutine** callback routine that is named *MyHwMSIRoutine*, use the **HW\_MESSAGE\_SIGNALED\_INTERRUPT\_ROUTINE** type as shown in this code example:


```
HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE MyHwMSIRoutine;
```



Then, implement your callback routine as follows:


```
_Use_decl_annotations_
BOOLEAN
MyHwMSIRoutine (
  _In_ PVOID  DeviceExtension,
  _In_ ULONG  MessageId
  );
  {
      ...
  }
```



The **HW\_MESSAGE\_SIGNALED\_INTERRUPT\_ROUTINE** function type is defined in the Storport.h header file. To more accurately identify errors when you run the code analysis tools, be sure to add the \_Use\_decl\_annotations\_ annotation to your function definition. The \_Use\_decl\_annotations\_ annotation ensures that the annotations that are applied to the **HW\_MESSAGE\_SIGNALED\_INTERRUPT\_ROUTINE** function type in the header file are used. For more information about the requirements for function declarations, see [Declaring Functions Using Function Role Types for Storport Drivers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh454209). For information about \_Use\_decl\_annotations\_, see [**Annotating Function Behavior**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/c0aa268d-6fa3-4ced-a8c6-f7652b152e61).

## Requirements



|                            |                                                                                                                                         |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Target platform<br/> | <dl> <dt>[Universal](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=531356)</dt> </dl> |
| Header<br/>          | <dl> <dt>Storport.h (include Storport.h)</dt> </dl>                              |
| IRQL<br/>            | DIRQL<br/>                                                                                                                        |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[**StorPortAcquireMSISpinLock**](storportacquiremsispinlock.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**StorPortReleaseMSISpinLock**](storportreleasemsispinlock.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**StorPortGetMSIInfo**](storportgetmsiinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**PORT\_CONFIGURATION\_INFORMATION**](port-configuration-information--storport-.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bstorage\storage%5D:%20HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE%20routine%20%20RELEASE:%20%283/29/2018%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")






