---
title: HW\_INITIALIZE routine
description: The HwStorInitialize routine initializes the miniport driver after a system reboot or power failure occurs.
ms.assetid: c6c70f15-2614-4623-8979-6046cdc6239b
keywords:
- HwStorInitialize routine Storage Devices
- HW_INITIALIZE
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- HwStorInitialize
api_location:
- Storport.h
api_type:
- UserDefined
ms.technology: desktop
ms.prod: windows
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# HW\_INITIALIZE routine

The **HwStorInitialize** routine initializes the miniport driver after a system reboot or power failure occurs. It is called by StorPort after [**HwStorFindAdapter**](hwstorfindadapter.md) successfully returns. **HwStorInitialize** initializes the HBA and finds all devices that are of interest to the miniport driver.

## Syntax


```C++
HW_INITIALIZE HwStorInitialize;

BOOLEAN HwStorInitialize(
   IN PVOID DeviceExtension
)
{ ... }
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*DeviceExtension* 
</dt> <dd>

A pointer to the miniport driver's per HBA storage area.

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

If the initialization succeeds, **HwStorInitialize** returns **TRUE**.

## Remarks

The name **HwStorInitialize** is just a placeholder. The actual prototype of this routine is defined in *Storport.h* as follows:


```
typedef
BOOLEAN
HW_INITIALIZE (
  _In_ PVOID  DeviceExtension
  );
```



Because **HwStorInitialize** is called at DIRQL, as much of the initialization process as possible should be performed by [**HwStorPassiveInitializeRoutine**](hwstorpassiveinitializeroutine.md). If so, you must enable the passive initialization routine via [**StorPortEnablePassiveInitialization**](storportenablepassiveinitialization.md).

If interrupts are generated by the hardware initialization, the [**HwStorInterrupt**](hwstorinterrupt.md) routine will be called. In this case, the **HwStorInitialize** routine should set up any data that **HwStorInterrupt** expects (including a [**HwStorDpcRoutine**](hwstordpcroutine.md), if one is used) before it begins to initialize the hardware.

The following responsibilities are shared between **HwStorInitialize** and [**HwStorPassiveInitializeRoutine**](hwstorpassiveinitializeroutine.md):

-   Initialize hardware for the HBA registers and buffers.

-   Initialize and allocate all *DeviceExtension* fields.

-   Set up and initialize all events and DPCs that are used by the miniport driver.

## Examples

To define an **HwStorInitialize** callback function, you must first provide a function declaration that identifies the type of callback function you re defining. Windows provides a set of callback function types for drivers. Declaring a function using the callback function types helps [Code Analysis for Drivers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh454182), [Static Driver Verifier](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff552808) (SDV), and other verification tools find errors, and it s a requirement for writing drivers for the Windows operating system.

For example, to define a **HwStorInitialize** callback routine that is named *MyHwInitialize*, use the **HW\_INITIALIZE** type as shown in this code example:


```
HW_INITIALIZE MyHwInitialize;
```



Then, implement your callback routine as follows:


```
_Use_decl_annotations_
BOOLEAN 
  MyHwInitialize( _In_ PVOID DeviceExtension )
  {
      ...
  }
```



The **HW\_INITIALIZE** function type is defined in the Storport.h header file. To more accurately identify errors when you run the code analysis tools, be sure to add the \_Use\_decl\_annotations\_ annotation to your function definition. The \_Use\_decl\_annotations\_ annotation ensures that the annotations that are applied to the **HW\_INITIALIZE** function type in the header file are used. For more information about the requirements for function declarations, see [Declaring Functions Using Function Role Types for Storport Drivers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh454209). For information about \_Use\_decl\_annotations\_, see [**Annotating Function Behavior**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/c0aa268d-6fa3-4ced-a8c6-f7652b152e61).

## Requirements



|                            |                                                                                                                                         |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Target platform<br/> | <dl> <dt>[Universal](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=531356)</dt> </dl> |
| Header<br/>          | <dl> <dt>Storport.h (include Storport.h)</dt> </dl>                              |
| IRQL<br/>            | DIRQL (See Remarks section.)<br/>                                                                                                 |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[**HwStorFindAdapter**](hwstorfindadapter.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**HwStorPassiveInitializeRoutine**](hwstorpassiveinitializeroutine.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**HwStorInterrupt**](hwstorinterrupt.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**HwStorDpcRoutine**](hwstordpcroutine.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bstorage\storage%5D:%20HW_INITIALIZE%20routine%20%20RELEASE:%20%283/29/2018%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")






