---
title: IdeHwInterrupt routine
description: The IdeHwInterrupt miniport driver routine handles interrupts from the host bus adapter (HBA) to which the controller for the miniport driver is connected.
ms.assetid: a061d993-78fc-45d8-857b-7269c3593847
keywords:
- IdeHwInterrupt routine Storage Devices
- IDE_HW_INTERRUPT
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- IdeHwInterrupt
api_location:
- irb.h
api_type:
- UserDefined
ms.date: 05/31/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: desktop
---

# IdeHwInterrupt routine

The ***IdeHwInterrupt*** miniport driver routine handles interrupts from the host bus adapter (HBA) to which the controller for the miniport driver is connected.

> [!Note]  
> The ATA port driver and ATA miniport driver models may be altered or unavailable in the future. Instead, we recommend using the [Storport driver](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/hardware/drivers/storage/storport-driver) and [Storport miniport](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/hardware/drivers/storage/storport-miniport-drivers) driver models.

 

## Syntax


```C++
IDE_HW_INTERRUPT IdeHwInterrupt;

BOOLEAN IdeHwInterrupt(
  _In_ PVOID ChannelExtension
)
{ ... }
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*ChannelExtension* \[in\]
</dt> <dd>

A pointer to the channel extension.

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

***AtaHwInterrrupt*** returns **TRUE** if the interrupt is generated by one of the controller's channels. If a channel did not generate the interrupt, the routine should return **FALSE** as quickly as possible.

## Remarks

The ***IdeHwInterrupt*** routine completes interrupt-driven I/O operations.

If the indicated channel did not generate the interrupt, the miniport driver should make a second (recursive) call to the ***IdeHwInterrupt*** routine to handle interrupts that are intended for the controller's other channel.

If the miniport driver requires a large amount of time to process the interrupt, it must follow these steps:

1.  Dismiss the interrupt on the HBA.

2.  Disable interrupts on the channel that is indicated by the *ChannelExtension* parameter.

3.  Request a worker routine by using [**AtaPortRequestWorkerRoutine**](ataportrequestworkerroutine.md).

4.  Complete additional processing in the worker routine.

5.  Enable interrupts on the channel.

The following ATA port routines must not be called from the ***IdeHwInterrupt*** routine:

-   [**AtaPortCompleteAllActiveRequests**](ataportcompleteallactiverequests.md)

-   [**AtaPortDeviceBusy**](ataportdevicebusy.md)

However, the miniport driver can request a worker routine and make calls in the worker routine.

The worker routine must clear the interrupt on the HBA before it returns **TRUE**.

## Requirements



|                            |                                                                                                  |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Target platform<br/> | <dl> <dt>Desktop</dt> </dl>               |
| Header<br/>          | <dl> <dt>Irb.h (include Irb.h)</dt> </dl> |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[**AtaPortCompleteAllActiveRequests**](ataportcompleteallactiverequests.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**AtaPortDeviceBusy**](ataportdevicebusy.md)
</dt> <dt>

[**AtaPortRequestWorkerRoutine**](ataportrequestworkerroutine.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bstorage\storage%5D:%20IdeHwInterrupt%20routine%20%20RELEASE:%20%283/29/2018%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")






