---
title: MSiSCSI\_TCPIPConfig structure
description: The MSiSCSI\_TCPIPConfig structure reports TCP/IP configuration information about one of the adapter's ports.
ms.assetid: '1f33d262-0488-46cb-a762-1f3e24cdd219'
keywords: ["MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig structure Storage Devices", "PMSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig structure pointer Storage Devices"]
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig
api_location:
- iscsicfg.h
api_type:
- HeaderDef
---

# MSiSCSI\_TCPIPConfig structure

The MSiSCSI\_TCPIPConfig structure reports TCP/IP configuration information about one of the adapter's ports.

## Syntax


```C++
typedef struct _MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig {
  BOOLEAN          UseLinkLocalAddress;
  BOOLEAN          EnableDHCP;
  BOOLEAN          UseDHCPForDNS;
  ULONG            IPVersions;
  ISCSI_IP_Address IpAddress;
  ISCSI_IP_Address DefaultGateway;
  ISCSI_IP_Address SubnetMask;
  ISCSI_IP_Address PreferredDNSServer;
  ISCSI_IP_Address AlternateDNSServer;
} MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig, *PMSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig;
```



## Members

<dl> <dt>

**UseLinkLocalAddress**
</dt> <dd>

A Boolean value that indicates whether the HBA should use an autogenerated and non-routable (link local) address as its IP address. If this member is **TRUE**, the HBA should use an autogenerated and non-routable (link local) address as its IP address. If this member is **FALSE**, the HBA is not required to use a link local address.

</dd> <dt>

**EnableDHCP**
</dt> <dd>

A Boolean value that indicates whether the HBA should use DHCP to discover IP address information. If this member is **TRUE**, the HBA should use DHCP to discover IP address information. If this member is **FALSE**, the HBA is not required to use DHCP to discover IP address information.

</dd> <dt>

**UseDHCPForDNS**
</dt> <dd>

A Boolean value that indicates whether the HBA should use DHCP to discover DNS addresses. If this member is **TRUE**, the HBA should use DHCP to discover DNS addresses. If **FALSE**, the HBA is not required to use DHCP to discover DNS addresses.

</dd> <dt>

**IPVersions**
</dt> <dd>

The version of the IP protocol that the HBA supports. A value of 0x00000001 indicates that the HBA supports version 4 of the IP protocol, and a value of 0x00000002 indicates that the HBA supports version 6.

</dd> <dt>

**IpAddress**
</dt> <dd>

A [**ISCSI\_IP\_Address**](iscsi-ip-address.md) structure that specifies the IP address for the HBA. The ISCSI\_IP\_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address.

</dd> <dt>

**DefaultGateway**
</dt> <dd>

A [**ISCSI\_IP\_Address**](iscsi-ip-address.md) structure that specifies the static IP address for the default gateway. The ISCSI\_IP\_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address of the default gateway.

</dd> <dt>

**SubnetMask**
</dt> <dd>

A [**ISCSI\_IP\_Address**](iscsi-ip-address.md) structure that specifies the static subnet mask. The ISCSI\_IP\_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the subnet mask.

</dd> <dt>

**PreferredDNSServer**
</dt> <dd>

A [**ISCSI\_IP\_Address**](iscsi-ip-address.md) structure that specifies the IP address of the preferred DNS server. The ISCSI\_IP\_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address of the preferred DNS server.

</dd> <dt>

**AlternateDNSServer**
</dt> <dd>

A [**ISCSI\_IP\_Address**](iscsi-ip-address.md) structure that specifies the IP address of the alternate DNS server. The ISCSI\_IP\_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address of the alternate DNS server.

</dd> </dl>

## Remarks

The WMI tool suite automatically generates a declaration of the MSiSCSI\_TCPIPConfig structure when it compiles the [MSiSCSI\_TCPIPConfig WMI Class](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563151) in *Config.mof*.You must implement this class.

## Requirements



|                   |                                                                                                            |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Header<br/> | <dl> <dt>Iscsicfg.h (include Iscsicfg.h)</dt> </dl> |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[**ISCSI\_IP\_Address**](iscsi-ip-address.md)
</dt> <dt>

[MSiSCSI\_TCPIPConfig WMI Class](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563151)
</dt> </dl>

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bstorage\storage%5D:%20MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig%20structure%20%20RELEASE:%20%283/29/2018%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")






