---
title: ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent macro
description: The ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent routine sends an event associated with an adapter unit to the port driver for delivery to WMI data consumers that have requested notification of the event.Note The SCSI port driver and SCSI miniport driver models may be altered or unavailable in the future. Instead, we recommend using the Storport driver and Storport miniport driver models.
ms.assetid: 'cb48d1a3-65ef-49f7-b6e5-b3dabf989779'
keywords: ["ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent macro Storage Devices"]
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent
api_location:
- scsiwmi.h
api_type:
- HeaderDef
---

# ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent macro

The **ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent** routine sends an event associated with an adapter unit to the port driver for delivery to WMI data consumers that have requested notification of the event.

> [!Note]  
> The SCSI port driver and SCSI miniport driver models may be altered or unavailable in the future. Instead, we recommend using the [Storport driver](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/hardware/drivers/storage/storport-driver) and [Storport miniport](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/hardware/drivers/storage/storport-miniport-drivers) driver models.

 

## Syntax


```C++
VOID ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent(
  [in] PVOID  HwDeviceExtension,
  [in] LPGUID Guid,
  [in] ULONG  InstanceIndex,
  [in] ULONG  EventDataSize,
  [in] PVOID  EventData
);
```



## Parameters

<dl> <dt>

*HwDeviceExtension* \[in\]
</dt> <dd>

Pointer to the hardware device extension. This is a per-HBA storage area that the port driver allocates and initializes on behalf of the miniport driver. Miniport drivers usually store HBA-specific information in this extension, such as the state of the HBA and the HBA's mapped access ranges. This area is available to the miniport driver in the **DeviceExtension-&gt;HwDeviceExtension** member of the HBA's device object immediately after the miniport driver calls [**ScsiPortInitialize**](scsiportinitialize.md). The port driver frees this memory when it removes the device.

</dd> <dt>

*Guid* \[in\]
</dt> <dd>

Pointer to the GUID that represents the event block.

</dd> <dt>

*InstanceIndex* \[in\]
</dt> <dd>

If the event block has multiple instances, specifies the index of the instance.

</dd> <dt>

*EventDataSize* \[in\]
</dt> <dd>

Specifies the number of bytes of data at *EventData*, not including pad bytes at the beginning of the event data buffer. If no data is generated for an event, *EventDataSize* should be set to zero.

</dd> <dt>

*EventData* \[in\]
</dt> <dd>

Pointer to a miniport driver-allocated buffer containing data generated by the miniport driver for the event. The buffer must be at least the size of the event data plus 0x40 pad bytes at the beginning of the buffer.

</dd> </dl>

## Return value

None.

## Remarks

This routine is a simplified version of the [**ScsiPortWmiFireLogicalUnitEvent**](scsiportwmifirelogicalunitevent.md) routine. Whereas, ScsiPortWmiFireLogicalUnitEvent can be used to notify the port driver of events associated with adapters and storage devices, **ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent** is used to notify the port driver of events associated with adapters only.

## Requirements



|                            |                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Target platform<br/> | <dl> <dt>Desktop</dt> </dl>                                  |
| Header<br/>          | <dl> <dt>Scsiwmi.h (include Miniport.h or Scsi.h)</dt> </dl> |



## See also

<dl> <dt>

[**ScsiPortWmiFireLogicalUnitEvent**](scsiportwmifirelogicalunitevent.md)
</dt> </dl>

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bstorage\storage%5D:%20ScsiPortWmiFireAdapterEvent%20macro%20%20RELEASE:%20%283/29/2018%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")






