---
Description: Exceptions can be initiated by hardware or software, and can occur in kernel-mode as well as user-mode code. Structured exception handling provides a single mechanism for the handling of kernel-mode and user-mode exceptions.
ms.assetid: ab5bc1bd-107f-4ed2-b471-a229a76637fe
title: Exception Handling
ms.technology: desktop
ms.prod: windows
ms.author: windowssdkdev
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# Exception Handling

Exceptions can be initiated by hardware or software, and can occur in kernel-mode as well as user-mode code. Structured exception handling provides a single mechanism for the handling of kernel-mode and user-mode exceptions.

The execution of certain instruction sequences can result in exceptions that are initiated by hardware. For example, an access violation is generated by the hardware when a process attempts to read from or write to a virtual address to which it does not have the appropriate access.

Events that require exception handling may also occur during execution of a software routine (for example, when an invalid parameter value is specified). When this happens, a thread can initiate an exception explicitly by calling the [**RaiseException**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms680552(v=VS.85).aspx) function. This function enables the calling thread to specify information that describes the exception.

An exception can be continuable or noncontinuable. A noncontinuable exception arises when the event is not continuable in the hardware, or if continuation makes no sense. A noncontinuable exception does not terminate the application. Therefore, an application may be able to catch the exception and run. However, a noncontinuable exception typically arises as a result of a corrupted stack or other serious problem, making it difficult to recover from the exception.

 

 



