desktop-src/properties/props-system-propgroup-message.md, before:

---
description: The property group separator used in property lists to separate audio files from other types. Do not use this property for getting or setting values. It is intended only as a marker.
ms.assetid: bbb475f3-f5da-42f1-be8f-396c5be86417
title: System.PropGroup.Message
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# System.PropGroup.Message

The property group separator used in property lists to separate audio files from other types. Do not use this property for getting or setting values. It is intended only as a marker.

## Windows 10, version 1703, Windows 10, version 1607, Windows 10, version 1511, Windows 10, version 1507, Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista

```
propertyDescription
   name = System.PropGroup.Message
   shellPKey = PKEY_PropGroup_Message
   formatID = 7FD7259D-16B4-4135-9F97-7C96ECD2FA9E
   propID = 100
   SearchInfo
      InInvertedIndex = false
      IsColumn = false
   typeInfo
      type = Null
```

## Remarks

PKEY values are defined in Propkey.h.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[propertyDescription](./propdesc-schema-propertydescription.md)
</dt> <dt>

[searchInfo](./propdesc-schema-searchinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[labelInfo](./propdesc-schema-labelinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[typeInfo](./propdesc-schema-typeinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[displayInfo](./propdesc-schema-displayinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[stringFormat](./propdesc-schema-stringformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[booleanFormat](./propdesc-schema-booleanformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[numberFormat](./propdesc-schema-numberformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[dateTimeFormat](./propdesc-schema-datetimeformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[enumeratedList](./propdesc-schema-enumeratedlist.md)
</dt> <dt>

[drawControl](./propdesc-schema-drawcontrol.md)
</dt> <dt>

[editControl](./propdesc-schema-editcontrol.md)
</dt> <dt>

[filterControl](./propdesc-schema-filtercontrol.md)
</dt> <dt>

[queryControl](./propdesc-schema-querycontrol.md)
</dt> </dl>

Commit message:

Message fixes: Third set of SEO duplicate description fixes (39). (#1068)
* Third set of SEO duplicate description fixes (39).

* Fixed a typo.

desktop-src/properties/props-system-propgroup-message.md, after:

---
description: Read about the System.PropGroup.Message property. Do not use this property for getting or setting values. It is intended only as a marker.
ms.assetid: bbb475f3-f5da-42f1-be8f-396c5be86417
title: System.PropGroup.Message
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2018
---

# System.PropGroup.Message

The property group separator used in property lists to separate audio files from other types. Do not use this property for getting or setting values. It is intended only as a marker.

## Windows 10, version 1703, Windows 10, version 1607, Windows 10, version 1511, Windows 10, version 1507, Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista

```
propertyDescription
   name = System.PropGroup.Message
   shellPKey = PKEY_PropGroup_Message
   formatID = 7FD7259D-16B4-4135-9F97-7C96ECD2FA9E
   propID = 100
   SearchInfo
      InInvertedIndex = false
      IsColumn = false
   typeInfo
      type = Null
```

## Remarks

PKEY values are defined in Propkey.h.

## Related topics

<dl> <dt>

[propertyDescription](./propdesc-schema-propertydescription.md)
</dt> <dt>

[searchInfo](./propdesc-schema-searchinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[labelInfo](./propdesc-schema-labelinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[typeInfo](./propdesc-schema-typeinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[displayInfo](./propdesc-schema-displayinfo.md)
</dt> <dt>

[stringFormat](./propdesc-schema-stringformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[booleanFormat](./propdesc-schema-booleanformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[numberFormat](./propdesc-schema-numberformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[dateTimeFormat](./propdesc-schema-datetimeformat.md)
</dt> <dt>

[enumeratedList](./propdesc-schema-enumeratedlist.md)
</dt> <dt>

[drawControl](./propdesc-schema-drawcontrol.md)
</dt> <dt>

[editControl](./propdesc-schema-editcontrol.md)
</dt> <dt>

[filterControl](./propdesc-schema-filtercontrol.md)
</dt> <dt>

[queryControl](./propdesc-schema-querycontrol.md)
</dt> </dl>
